The Nigerian judiciary has gone through various forms of controversies in recent times as a result of some of its judgments that people felt were short of expectations, especially at the Supreme Court level. The once revered judicial arm of government was finally demystified in October 2016 when the State Security Service invaded houses of Justices and judges in the night and further charged them to court for alleged corrupt practices. Although, most of them were discharged and acquitted, it appeared to have confirmed speculations and perception of sharp practices in the judiciary that have led to justice denial in the past.
  
With this development, the ‘vote of no confidence’ on the judiciary grew and people gradually began to lose interest in approaching the court when their rights are infringed upon, especially when the government in power is the defendant. In fact, Nigerians could predict the outcome from the moment a legal action was instituted against the government in power.
  
Having been subjected to judicial process several times, President Muhammadu Buhari, in his early days in office, had alluded to the judiciary being a problem rather than the hope of all men. He further brought the second arm of government to its knees when he told his audience that the judiciary was his main headache in the fight against graft.
  
Interestingly, eight years after, it was surprising that the same President Buhari has recommended the same court he publicly accused of corruption to aggrieved parties at the just concluded Presidential and National Assembly elections.
  
While congratulating the candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Ahmed Bola Tinubu, who was declared winner amid alleged irregularities, Buhari said: “Votes and those that cast them cannot be taken for granted. Each must be earned. Competition is good for our democracy. There is no doubt the people’s decision has been rendered in the results we look at today.  He stressed that when asked if Nigerian judiciary has the independence and neutrality needed for the justices to discharge justice without fear or favour with regards to the political litigation that may follow the February 25th Presidential and NASS elections, he will simply say ‘No.’
  
According to him, Nigerian judiciary has not been independent and not known for its neutrality, “especially since the emergence of the government of President Muhammadu Buhari, whose administration went after Justices of the Supreme Court in a sting operation he directed the Department of State Services to embark upon.”
 
Adding: “It would seem that the attack on the Justices of Supreme Court and the subsequent removal in a very controversial manner through an ex-parte injunction granted by the Code of Conduct Tribunal, of former CJN, Justice Onnoghen on April 5, 2019 just before the re-election battles by the incumbent President, seriously whittled down the independence of the judiciary and infused fear of the executive in the minds of the justices of the nation’s court system.
  
“This became manifest when a Justice of the Supreme Court, Tanko Muhammad, was made to succeed the controversially removed CJN Onnoghen. Afterwards, the judiciary became very questionable to an extent that several Justices of the Supreme Court protested against the style of leadership of the court by Justice Muhammad, who they accused of corruption and lack of accountability.
  
“The spillover effect of that internal schism produced the current CJN, Justice Olukayode Ariwoola, whose headship immediately ran into hot waters of controversy with allegations that he was in deeper communion with politicians, especially the G5 Governors.
  
“He was lampooned by many critics and social commentators for publicly supporting Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde’s membership of the G5 Governors, now known as the Integrity Group. Most critics of the alleged compromise were of the opinion that the CJN’s attitude showed he is partisan, adding that the act could worsen the crisis of legitimacy and credibility tearing the justice system apart.
  
But in spite of all these views, a constitutional lawyer and Fellow, Chartered Institute of Arbitrators, UK, Dr. Kayode Ajulo, still believe that the judiciary is the last hope of all men. While admitting that the judiciary in Nigeria is often confronted with several challenges in serving as an impartial arbiter for crystal-clear political disputes, he argued in favour of their ability to have done justice to numerous cases in the past.
 
“To answer the question, my answer is in the affirmative, and the pointer to this is how the judiciary has been able to do justice to the enormous numbers of pre-election cases before it.  “Amidst all the ensuing chaos, the judiciary should be praised for rising to the occasion and delivering judgments within the constitutionally stipulated time. Those dissatisfied with judgments of the FHC rightfully exercised their right of Appeal and appealed to the Court of Appeal. The Court of Appeal of different divisions equally rose to the occasion and delivered judgments within the time stipulated by the constitution, sometimes affirming the decisions of the FHC or setting them aside.
  
“This alone has shown that the courts are committed to playing the role of impartial arbiter. Because the Court of Appeal plays the role of an elder brother, it reviews some of the actions taken by its younger brother, the FHC, and when those actions are consistent with the principles of law, it affirms them; when otherwise, it disavows and nullifies them.” 