Emerging Leaders Forum of Nigeria (ELFON) has cautioned youths against being used by politicians to overheat the polity and disrupt civil rule for selfish ends. The group said the warning followed mounting opposition to result of last weekend’s presidential election. Comprising Niger Delta Youth Parliament, Oduduwa Youth Assembly, National Association of Polytechnic Students, Ohaneze Ndigbo Youth Assembly, Nigerian Students Parliament, Youth Assembly of Nigeria and Northern Youth Council, the coalition, at a press conference, addressedby  ELFON president, Godstime Samuel, yesterday, in Abuja, raised the alarm that some politicians were making inciting remarks that could trigger ethnic or religious crisis. He said: “Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is an institution run by humans and not spirits, hence abnormalities are inevitable. Anyone, political party or group that feels their right have been trampled upon or their mandate stolen in any guise, should for the sake of Nigeria’s unity and peace, approach the courts to seek redress.” “Nigerian youths must refrain from being used by politicians to create crisis in pursuit of their selfish interests. “The burning of shops in some states of the federation for whatever reason is highly condemned, and we urge security agencies to immediately investigate for justice to take its course. “No tribe should see the Nigerian presidential seat as its birth right or ancestral throne of heritage. We urge Nigerians not to attach religion or ethnicity to any pursuit, which is supposed to be for the good and benefit of Nigeria and Nigerians in general. “If INEC has got it right, it got it right for all religion and tribe in Nigeria. If INEC got it wrong, it got it wrong to affect all religion and tribe in Nigeria. Therefore, no tribe or religion or ethnic group should see the outcome as their win or loss alone. “We the emerging leaders of our dear nation and the generality of Nigerian youths will be the greatest losers if the Nigeria project is truncated, hence our resolve to reorient and caution Nigerians to always think Nigeria first.”