• Intercepts heroin, skunk in deep freezers, cooking gas cylinders at Lagos airport, Idiroko
• Destroys 39.8 hectares of cannabis farms in Edo, Ondo
Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), have arrested rehabilitated ex-fighter of the Boko Haram terror group, Alayi Madu, a traditional ruler of Kajola, a border community between Ondo and Edo state, Baale Akinola Adebayo and 35 others for drug trafficking.  Meanwhile, NDLEA operatives attached to the Gate C departure hall of the MMIA on Thursday,  March 9, intercepted a passenger, Aigbedion Philomena heading to Italy via Addis Ababa on an Ethiopian Airline flight.      When her bags containing body cream, hair attachments, drinks, and some food items were searched, a total of 1.20kg tramadol capsules concealed inside gift wrapping sheets and covered with old daily newspapers were discovered.
 
At the Idiroko land border, NDLEA operatives acting on intelligence on Thursday, March 9, intercepted a commercial Toyota Camry Salon car marked: JJJ 756 HB (Lagos), along Ilase-Akoko road, Idiroko with 34 compressed jumbo size wraps of imported skunk weighing 17kg and concealed in two cooking gas cylinders. Two suspects in the car, Benjamin Ajose, 48 and Oluwatobiloba Ajayi, 37, were arrested.
 
In Akwa Ibom State, Mrs. Hope Iniobong David, 42, was arrested with bags of Cannabis sativa weighing 1,112kg (1.1 tons) in her house at Ediene Abak in Abak Local Council, while operatives in Kogi State on Thursday,  March 9, recovered 25 cartons, containing 50,000 ampoules of pentazocine injection weighing 200kg in a Toyota Hiace bus marked: LAM 652 LG, Kogi, travelling from Lagos to Abuja.  A 56-year-old suspect, Shinayemà Kelenku was arrested at Tse-kelenku village, Logo Local Council, Benue with 36.7kg skunk, while in Delta State, operatives intercepted a suspect, Chimeze Ndukaire, 56, conveying psychotropic substances worth over N30 million in a white Toyota Hiace bus with registration number Lagos FST 279 XS coming from Onitsha to Warri. The vehicle was intercepted on Friday,  March 10, at G.S.M junction, Asaba based on a tip-off.
 
Recovered from the bus include: 267.3 litres of codeine (2,673 bottles); 25,110 pills of tramadol and other opioids.
   
In Kano State, NDLEA operatives on Saturday, March 11,  raided the Sabon-gari area of Kano where they arrested a suspect, Chukwuebuka Christopher and recovered from him 7,740 bottles of Codeine based syrup, measuring 774 litres, concealed inside 43 sacks of garlic.
 
Reacting, Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of NDLEA, Brig. Gen. Mohammed Buba Marwa (Retd), commended the officers, men and women of MMIA, Idiroko, Edo, Kaduna, Akwa Ibom, Kogi, Ogun, Gombe, Lagos, Kwara, FCT, Benue, Delta and Kano Commands of the Agency for their diligence and commitment to work.
 
He urged them and their compatriots across other commands not to rest on their oars.