Stakeholders in the agricultural space have urged the President-elect, Sen. Bola Tinubu, to adopt policies and invest in mechanisation and inputs that will boost nation’s food system. They said this in separate interviews with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Saturday in Lagos while setting agenda for the incoming government. The farmers also urged the incoming administration to involve heads of various commodity associations’ in policy and decision making process to ensure growth and development of the sector.
The stakeholders who congratulated the president-elect for winning the Feb. 25 presidential election said that his emergence would bring the much-needed development to the agricultural sector. Dr Femi Oke, Chairman, All Farmers Association of Nigeria, Lagos State chapter and South-West Zone, urged the president-elect to be a listening president to farmers and appoint only qualified experts to oversee the agricultural sector. “We also want him to establish the Office of the Special Adviser to the President on Food Security which will deal directly with issues of food, this should be separated from the Federal Ministry of Agriculture. “We hope that the new president will keep his promise because it will bring joy and succour to the farmers. “With Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and all he had done in Lagos State during his tenure as the governor, we are sure of great performance in food production. “We want him to be a listening president to the farmers and do a lot especially in the area of development of various value chains. “We want him to bring more investors into the agric space because we are expecting a lot from him,” he said. Mrs Juliana Ibitoye, Chairperson, Erikorodo Poultry Farm Estate, Ikorodu a suburb of Lagos, urged the president-elect to run an all inclusive government. Ibitoye said that poultry farmers were facing challenges in the area of inputs, high cost of feeds and inconsistent government policies that affects the day-to-day operation of the sector. She appealed to the president-elect to review the ban on importation of maize adding that the current production level was too small to meet the need of the sector, thereby resulting in high cost of feed. 