The governorship candidates of All Progressives Congress (APC), Labour Party (LP) and the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in Taraba State have lashed out at leadership of the state chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) for meddling into Taraba politics. The candidates, who raised the alarm, yesterday, in a joint press briefing in Jalingo, the state capital, expressed sadness at the way leadership of the association has derailed from their calling, and now goes about canvassing votes for a particular governorship candidate in the state. The candidates, which include: former minister of Labour and Productivity, Emmanuel Bwacha; Senator Joel Ikenya, and the incumbent member representing Ardo-Kola, Lau and Karim-Lamido Constituency, Danladi Baido, stated this while reacting to alleged endorsement of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate, Kefas Agbu, by CAN. Dejected by the alleged endorsement, the candidates wondered why CAN is only interested in a particular political party in the state. Alleging that CAN in Taraba has derailed from its core mandate, the candidates noted that the association has turned to a government parastatal and politicised. Calling on people of the state to disregard the purported endorsement, they maintained that the era of imposing an unpopular candidate on the people has gone. The governorship candidates, who are also of the view that “Taraba is not a company where you can impose candidates on the people,” admonished the association to desist from such act by steering clear from politics. The candidates said: “We are not governorship candidates of a particular religion, but of the people. It has become necessary for CAN to distance itself from forcing a particular candidate on the people. “Nobody should play pranks with the name of religion in the state. “Taraba people have reached a level where no individual or group can use religion to deceive them.” Recall that leadership of CAN in Taraba recently announced its endorsement of the PDP governorship candidate in the state, which has been generating widespread criticisms, especially among the Christian community.