The ASQ Development and Training, Nigeria, has urged the incoming government, under the leadership of the President-Elect, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, to focus on skills acquisition in order to boost human capital development in the country. The Chief Executive Officer of the centre, Mr Samson Adeosun, in a statement issued Monday in Abuja, stated that ASQ Nigeria was not in doubt whatsoever, that the administration of Tinubu will return days of economic boom and secure social life to Nigeria. The statement read in part: “We strongly appeal that we all join forces to resist any attempt by any detractors to destabilize the polity and truncate this hard-earned national victory. “No election is perfect anywhere in the world, even America, the father of democratic culture still has scandals of riggings and electoral malpractices, yet, national interest has always prevailed at the end of the day.” Adeosun however called on the incoming government to pay necessary attention to the issue of skills towards ensuring a boost in the small and medium enterprises. He said: “Furthermore, ASQ is using this medium to enjoin the incoming administration of His Excellency, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, to pay needed and adequate premium to sustainable youth development through innovative vocational skills transfer programmes.” This he stated, is a most assured conduit to re-enforcing the nation’s Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) sector as well as enhance the nation’s Per Capita Income and Gross Domestic Product (GDP).” Adeosun also urged Nigerian youths to toe the path of peace, and respect the rule of law. This was as he called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to reexamine itself and purge its staff of corrupt minds. His words: “Finally, as we call on all Nigerians, especially the youths, to toe the line of peace and rule of law, we equally urge INEC to do a self-re-examination, purge itself of all bad eggs and fill all identified gaps in order to retain credibility as we move into the next round of the general elections.”