Download logo Cross-border criminal activities continue to compromise the security and integrity of Lesotho and our only neighbouring country, South Africa.  This, the Minister of Local Government, Chieftainship, Home Affairs and Police, Mr. Lebona Lephema said during the press briefing on Security and Migration Management held in Maseru on Friday last week. Mr. Lephema said they have agreed to work with agility and strengthen mutual cooperation to end cross-border crimes, singling out human trafficking; stock theft; money laundering linked Cash in Transit CIT heists and illegal mining (known as Zama Zama) to name a few. He said the signing of the MoU stems from their initial meeting hosted in Pretoria, South Africa on 2nd February 2023 with his counterpart, the Minister of Police, Mr. Bheki Cele who led a high-level delegation of the South African Police Service (SAPS). In this meeting, he said they committed to holding a follow-up meeting, which was realised through this two-day engagement. The Minister said their intention is to become the most significant force in addressing Bi-National security concerns for the benefit and safety of the people of these two countries, saying they remain stubborn in their pursuit of safety and justice beyond the borders. He stressed that they remain committed and that criminals will not run amok between Lesotho and South Africa, without any repercussions. The Minister expressed his belief that the President of the Republic of South Africa, Mr. Cyril Ramaphosa who has been kept abreast of the Bilateral discussions has shared similar sentiments; encouraging all efforts to improve safety between our countries. Mr. Lephema said they are taking the existing partnership to a new level, saying transforming their relationship into a stronger alliance which is guided by their unique geographical positioning and shared history that demand them to join all efforts and their previous bilateral agreements and obligations to remain committed to putting their people first. He further said the safe, orderly and humane movement of persons between Lesotho and South Africa, remains at the core of their discussions, which are rooted in safety and security, adding that they will be strengthening their measures to curb porous borders through the implementation of a One-Stop Border Post. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Government of Lesotho.