African Democratic Congress (ADC), Ogun State cahpter and the Senator Ibikunle Amosun (SIA) political family have congratulated the President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the winner of the 2023 presidential election held on Saturday, February 25, 2023. The group also congratulated Nigerians and the electorate for the successful conduct of the presidential poll. The congratulatory message was contained in a statement by the convener, Awonuga Team, Segun Awojobi, who commended Nigerians for aligning faith and confidence with a democratic path in spite of political differences. “Whatever disappointment that may have been experienced in the wake of the election. We make bold to say that it is only by demonstrating unflagging faith in the democratic process that Nigeria can surmount the prevailing challenges.” He applauded Senator Ibikunle Amosun (SIA) for his forthrightness, support and contributions to the emergence of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as President-elect of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “We wish to express our confidence that the new dispensation under his leadership will restore hope in Nigeria and create a sense of belonging for all and sundry. We appreciate our teeming members and supporters under the platform of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) in Ogun State for voting overwhelmingly for Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu. We are confident that the resolute commitment of our members and supporters will translate into victories in the coming polls as well as in entrenching a formidable platform that will stand the test of time in Ogun State. “We wish to place on record that the decision of our leader, Senator Ibikunle Amosun to step down from the presidential race culminated in a series of events and mobilisation by rank and file members of ADC in support, which enriched the campaigns of Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu in Ogun State.” He commended leaders under the platform of ADC in Ogun State for standing to be counted in the historic campaigns leading to the election. “The enormous support of rank and file members of ADC in Ogun State, as well as the SIA Political Family, has been instrumental to the emergence of Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the eventual winner of the just concluded presidential election.” Awojobi called on members of ADC and SIA Political Family to remain resolute in their commitment to enthroning a genuinely progressive government in Ogun State through the governorship and house of assembly elections slated for March 11, 2023. “We, therefore, wish to make a passionate call to our members in Ogun State ADC, our supporters and the generality of the people of Ogun State that the task ahead on March 11, is achievable even as challenging as it may seem. “We call on our members and supporters to remain steadfast in their mobilisation in support of our governorship candidate, Biyi Otegbeye and his deputy, Olatunde Awonuga as the last week ahead of the March 11 approaches. “We encourage the generality of the people of Ogun State and the electorate, in particular, to keep faith with the ADC and all candidates of the party in the forthcoming governorship and house of assembly elections.”