Former Nigerian President, Dr Goodluck Ebele Jonathan will headline other African greats who are set to be honoured at the maiden edition of The African Heritage Concert and Awards slated to hold in Kigali, Rwanda on April 1, 2023. Former President of Tanzania, late John Magufuli; Vice President of Liberia, Her Excellency, Chief Dr Jewel Howard-Taylor; Former President of Botswana, Lt. Gen. Seretse Khama Ian Khama (retd), and many other prominent Africans will also be honoured. According to the organizers – Heritage Times (HT), The African Heritage Concert and Awards will celebrate and honour distinguished African personalities, who have dignified themselves through remarkable achievements across the globe. This, the organiser said have become imperative to foster the African culture of excellence and promote Afrocentrism. The African Heritage Awards and Concert will be a celebration and global recognition of outstanding achievements made by Africans, including those residing in the diaspora, in areas of Business, Politics, Philanthropy, Entertainment/Arts and Culture, Science and Technology, and Social Innovation. Jonathan who served as President of Nigeria from 2010 to 2015, will be honoured with the African Democracy and Peace Icon Award. “Jonathan’s name is written in gold for being the first incumbent Nigerian President to cede power peacefully to the opposition in the aftermath of an election, a move which saved the country from plunging into speculated crisis in 2015. “I’ve always affirmed, nobody’s ambition is worth the blood of any Nigerian,” he’s famed for saying at the time. His administration brought on board professionals and technocrats, including the likes of WTO’s Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala and AfDB’s Akinwumi Adesina, whose expertise helped in revamping Nigeria’s economy”, the organiser stated. Ian Khama who was Botswana’s fourth Head of State will be honoured with the African Philanthropist Award for stamping his reputation as an advocate of human rights and respecter of the rule of law. His foundation, the SKI Khama Foundation, has immensely empowered youths and contributed to the health, education and sports sectors of the country. Currently serving as Liberia’s 30th Vice President, Howard-Taylor will be bestowed with the African Humanitarian Award. She has been a very visible and involved stateswoman; with a vision for affordable but quality education; a transparent justice system; an improved and accessible health system; women’s economic and political participation; and an accountable public service system. The late Magufuli will receive a posthumous African Icon Award for his giant strides during his short stint as President of Tanzania. When he came on board, his government worked to banish a lot of the chronic problems in the Tanzanian administrative and political leadership. He fought a structure riddled with systemic corruption, characterised by ghost workers on payroll, underperformance and laxity in public service and extravagant spending. Other awardees are: Victoria Nalongo Namusisi, Founder & Executive Director of Bright Kids Uganda and Uganda’s first female Sports journalist; Engr. Simbi Kesiye Wabote, Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB); Prof. Patrick Loch Otieno Lumumba, Kenyan legal practitioner and Advocate of the High Courts of Kenya and Tanzania; Sir Benedict Peters, Founder and Managing Director/CEO of Aiteo Group.