• HURIWA knocks Buhari, Emefiele for abandoning citizens after S’Court order President of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Joe Ajaero, has described the ongoing naira swap as a class struggle, which shouldn’t have involved poor masses struggling to survive under the yoke of a N30, 000 minimum wage. This was disclosed during the commissioning of  newly constructed secretariat of the union in Lokoja, Kogi State. Ajaero, who was represented by General Secretary, Comrade Emmanuel Ogwaja, berated the ruling class for involving poor workers in the race to outdo each other, under the guise of currency redesign. According to him, no worker has excess liquidity outside the banking system. He said, while he wouldn’t want to join issues on the policy, its formulators know those who have stashed money in private vaults. He said: “Workers that are burdened by the insufficient salary, which cannot put decent food on their tables, would have the luxury of stashing away money? The essence of the naira swap is nothing but a class struggle. Workers are not part of the struggle and should not be drawn into the war. “If the policymakers are sincere, they should beam their searchlight on economic saboteurs, instead of causing untold hardship on hapless workers and the citizenry.” He added: “We will not be drawn into the Supreme Court judgment. Those going to court are those that have the money. No one can steal the mandate of workers. And at the appropriate time, judgment will be served in favour of workers. Many days, as the saying goes, is for the thief, but one day for the owner.” MEANWHILE, Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) has accused President Muhammadu Buhari and Central Bank of Nigeria Governor, Godwin Emefiele, of deserting citizens on the naira redesign policy. The group also called on the President to resign immediately “to stave off imminent economic collapse of Nigeria under his watch.” In a statement by National Coordinator, Comrade Emmanuel Onwubiko, HURIWA said it is unfortunate and disappointing that Buhari and Emefiele have remained silent, four days after the Supreme Court ruled that old N200, N500 and N1, 000 notes remain valid till December 31, 2023. The group said the President and the CBN governor have left Nigerians confused. As a result, the country is in autopilot mode, with commercial banks directionless whether to follow the Supreme Court order or the declaration of the President that old N500 and N1, 000 notes are no longer valid and that the old N200 will stop being legal tender on April 10, 2023. 