The Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE) has called on government to ensure that the person to head the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) should be an engineer if the country must achieve sustainable development. Mr Tasiu Gidari-Wudil, President of NSE said this on Saturday at a news conference organised by the society for the commemoration of the World Engineering Day (WED) in Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the theme of the 2023 World Engineering Day is “Engineering Innovations for a More Resilient World”. NAN also reports that in 2020, March 4, was officially designated as the World Engineering Day (WED) for Sustainable Development. The date was approved by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) as a special international day to celebrate Engineers and the works of Engineering every year. Gidari-Wudil speaking at the occasion said if the Government would strive the person who should head INEC as its chairman should be an engineer. “70 per cent of the operations of INEC is logistics, that is industrial engineering, the operations; election now is ICT based, technology based, so if you are going to bring a professor of political science or history most of the questions in this field he cannot answer. “But if you bring an engineer he will use his experience, am sure most of the commissioners are not engineers, so when you talking of logistics and tracing, I can tell you if you put an engineer he will be geo-tagging every ballot box. “So, if really government is ready to solve problems let them put square pegs in square holes, there are more than 40 fields of engineering, so if you want things to work don’t be afraid to put the right professionals in the right places. “What we are saying is that the in-coming government should be mindful of this if they want to develop this country. In every political party there are engineers. People with the right competences should put in places,” Gadari-Wudil said. 