Key quotes after Chelsea beat Borussia Dortmund 2-0 in the second leg of their Champions League last-16 tie on Tuesday, clinching a place in the quarter-finals with a 2-1 aggregate success: “The last two weeks were hard for us because we lost a lot of games. We had to show a lot of character today. The Champions League is the last competition we can win. We showed that we want to win this competition again.” — Chelsea forward Kai Havertz, who scored his side’s decisive second goal from the penalty spot. “I don’t know what I was thinking (when his first penalty hit the post) but the referee let me retake it. I tried to wait and look at the keeper and the second one was a bit easier. I was a bit nervous but I scored. ” — Havertz on his emotional rollercoaster before each penalty. “I’ve seen Kai shoot penalties so often in training. I was always confident in him even though he missed the first one. I knew he was going to put it in the back of the net.” — Raheem Sterling, who netted Chelsea’s opening goal, on Havertz missing his first penalty and then scoring after it was retaken. “Obviously we have confidence in Kai. I wasn’t watching it but was delighted when I heard the roar. Taking penalties is not for me, so I am in awe of anybody who does.” — Chelsea boss Graham Potter on why couldn’t watch Havertz retake his penalty. “There was a fantastic feeling in the dressing room. We have been through a tough period and this competition means a lot for us. We wanted to progress and get into the last eight and it sets us up for the next few weeks.” — Potter on a victory that gave him a some breathing space after weeks of calls for him to be sacked amid Chelsea’s dismal recent run. “I’m not sure! There is a lot of emotion in the end. It was tense in the end but the boys played fantastic.” — The usually low-key Potter when asked about his exuberant post-match celebrations on the pitch. “The referee. The referee was very bad today. To give a second penalty like that, how does that happen? I don’t understand it. The style and manner in which the referee spoke to us was arrogant. We’re playing here at Stamford Bridge, maybe he’s afraid of the fans, no idea. UEFA need to send us a different referee, it’s not OK.” — Dortmund midfielder Emre Can on why Dortmund lost. “I’m not sure what more you can do with the hands. I don’t want to get in trouble, I’ve paid enough (fines). The fact they had a retake was a joke. When you have such a slow run up you’re always going to have players encroaching into the box by a yard or so.” — Dortmund midfielder Jude Bellingham on the controversial penalty for Marius Wolf’s handball and the subsequent decision to let Havertz retake it after encroachment by the visitors. “I haven’t seen it on the TV, just the impression I got on the sideline. I found it a very harsh decision to give a penalty. But what’s bitterer is that the penalty was re-done. If you look Havertz stopped his run before he kicked the ball and the Chelsea players were first in the penalty box. — Dortmund coach Edin Terzic on the penalty incident.