The National Association of Seadogs (Pyrates’ Confraternity), Sahara Deck, Abuja City Centre, has called on the need to “embrace equity” as it joins the world in celebrating International Women’s Day 2023. In its call for all to “Embrace Equity,” being its theme for this year’s celebration, Olamide Oni, the Capoon, Sahara Deck, Abuja City Centre, said, as an organization committed to promoting justice, equity, and social inclusion, NAS recognizes the importance of gender equality and the role of women in building a better world. In a statement he personally signed, Oni said, “this year’s theme emphasizes the need to embrace equity, which goes beyond equal opportunities for all. It means creating an environment where everyone has equal access to resources, power, and decision-making. NAS believes that equity is a fundamental human right, and women must be given equal opportunities to succeed in all aspects of life. “International Women’s Day is an opportunity to celebrate women’s achievements and their contributions to the society. It is also a call to action, to accelerate progress towards gender equality. We must all work together to eliminate gender-based discrimination and violence and create a world where every woman and girl can thrive.” He said, “as part of its commitment to promoting equity and inclusion, NAS, Sahara Deck (Abuja City Centre) has embarked on various initiatives to empower women and girls. The organization has provided support for women entrepreneurs, advocated for women’s rights, and worked with government agencies to address issues affecting women and girls.” “On this International Women’s Day, NAS calls on all stakeholders to join hands in the fight for gender equality. It is time to embrace equity and create a world where women have equal opportunities to succeed and reach their full potential,” Oni said. Emphasising the role of its organisation, Oni said “the National Association of Seadogs (NAS) is a nonprofit organization committed to promoting social justice, human rights, and social inclusion. NAS is dedicated to creating a society where everyone has equal access to opportunities, regardless of gender, race, or religion.”