Former governor of old Anambra State, Chief Jim Nwobodo, yesterday, urged politicians in Enugu State to avoid actions that could derail peace in the state, noting that the 2023 general elections should not be used to create disaffection. Reacting to a viral video on social media where a Senator–elect in the state had called on people of his constituency to see the March 11 governorship and state assembly elections as a “do or die affair,” Nwobodo warned against inciting statements. The politician was quoted to have said to a gathering at Nsukka that the “March 11 election is a straight fight between Nsukka and Nkanu to know who is bigger than the other, because Nkanu people want to turn us, the majority, to minority. So, you must prepare very well. You must make sure the directive goes round.” Nwobodo, however, urged politicians in the state to learn from the peaceful disposition of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, who, he said, had “not abused anybody since he lost his election to the Senate. “This tendency to drum up war should be cancelled. It is God that gives power. I want to inform you of the looming danger. I watched a video where he said that the governorship election would be a do or die affair. I was shocked that somebody, who has just been elected to represent his people at the National Assembly, could make such an inciting statement. He was inciting the people of Nsukka against the people of Nkanu, literally drumming up war on the governorship election day. “First, I want to plead with the peace-loving people of Nkanu not to react violently to the unprovoked statement. The people of Nsukka are our brothers and sisters and not our enemies. As a governor of Old Anambra State, I had good relationship with Nsukka, and they were my supporters.” Nwobodo added that Peter Mbah of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is seeking to be governor of the state for the three senatorial zones of the state, and that the power he seeks is not a sectional one. Nwobodo also condemned, in strong terms, the killing of the Labour Party (LP) senatorial candidate for Enugu East, Oyibo Chukwu, last week, insisting that no amount of politics and power is worth taking the life of any individual. He stressed that any politician that takes life is not worthy to occupy public office. 