Preaches cohesion, understanding ahead of Saturday’s elections Igba Lani Demokrats (ILD) has kicked off a three-day door-to-door campaign in support of Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu; his Deputy, Dr Obafemi Hamzat and other candidates of All Progressives Congress (APC) contesting the next governorship and House of Assembly elections in the state. ILD, a pan-Lagos socio-political organisation, also preached cohesion, understanding and unity among the party’s chieftains and members to enable APC win Saturday’s governorship and House of Assembly elections landslide at all levels. This was contained in a statement the Coordinator of the group, Prince Adewale Taorid Ojora released Tuesday night, saying the door-to-door campaign was designed to mobilise grassroots support for Sanwo-Olu, Hamzat and all other APC candidates standing for Saturday’s elections. Igba Laani Demokrats is a socio-political assembly of likeminds exclusively drawn from members of the APC with the purpose of strengthening its support base and promoting progressive governance in the country, especially Lagos State. The door-to-door campaign, currently ongoing in 10 local government areas (LGAs) under the theme, “Moving forward with Sanwo-Olu & Hamzat,” is aimed canvassing support for their re-election at the grassroots. In his statement yesterday, Ojora noted that the group had been actively involved in the politics of Lagos State in the last seven years with a strong presence in 20 local government areas (LGAs). Ojora, former Chief Executive Officer/Head of Lagos State Law Enforcement Training Institute (LETI), further explained rationales behind the door-to-door campaign, saying Sanwo-Olu’s re-election “is equally of significant interest to our members considering the outcome of the last presidential election and the threat by regressive elements to hijack Lagos.” “At this point, as loyal members of Lagos APC and progressive professionals, we cannot fold our hands and allow these anti-progressive elements to set Lagos on the regressive path. We are doing everything we should to ensure not just Sanwo-Olu’s victory, but also other candidates our party nominated for the forthcoming governorship and House of Assembly elections.” With Sanwo-Olu’s re-election, Ojora further assured Lagos residents that progressive governance in Lagos State would continue seamlessly, which according to him, was another reason for activating the door-to-door campaign to canvass support for the re-election of Sanwo-Olu and Hamzat. He noted that the door-to-door campaign had already started in Lagos Island, Apapa, Alimosho, Ajeromi Ifelodun, Amuwo Odofin, and five other LGAs on Tuesday and would end on Thursday in line with the provisions of the 2022 Electoral Act. He explained that the essence of the door-to-door campaign “is to connect directly with the people and emphasise the need to ensure that progressive governance continues and position the state as an investment destination. “We decided that the best approach was to move from neighbourhood to neighbourhood, ward to ward, street to street, and door to door to convince and motivate the APC members and other residents, who duly registered for the forthcoming elections. “We are also visiting homes, markets, schools, estates, religious centres and neighbourhoods in the 10 LGAs, where opposition parties are more influential, to canvass support for Sanwo-Olu, Hamzat and other candidates of our great party.”