Lagos State Police Command, yesterday, said it will investigate an alleged attempt on the life of a lady, Benedicta Christopher, by her neighbour over her choice of candidate in last Saturday’s election. Spokesperson for the Command, Benjamin Hundeyin, advised that a formal complaint should be made. The lady had alleged that her neighbour, popularly referred to as Ijebu attempted to kill her in Ogba area of Lagos for supporting a particular candidate against his own. Narrating her ordeal to The Guardian yesterday, Benedicta said she narrowly escaped being killed after another neighbour who is a dispatch rider showed up in the compound. She said: “ On Friday, February 24, 2023, being the eve of the Presidential election, I left the house because my polling unit is far from where I am living. I went back home after the elections and he saw me and said, ‘shebi na Obi, no wahala. He didn’t respond to my greeting. Later, he told me, it will no longer be Ghana must go, but Igbo must go and he repeated it severally. I didn’t take him seriously. She added: “I saw him on Sunday, February 26, 2023, I greeted him again, she snubbed me, but yesterday (Monday 27, 2023) at about 10:00p.m, I started hearing banging on my door with the shout of ‘Benedicta come out. I almost opened my door, but I stayed back when I started hearing, ‘Omo Ibo ni’, o wa ni’le (She’s an Igbo, she’s at home) and I went on Twitter immediately so that people could escalate my situation. On how she escaped, she said: “My next-door neighbour came home at that time, he intervened and while that was going on, I opened the door to escape and sustained injuries. “I reached out to Area G Police Station, but they are yet to arrest him, I called my neighbour and he told me that the police were there, but couldn’t find him. I am yet to return home, but I will go back to the station to make a statement. When The Guardian tried to reach out to the accused, his telephone number: 08108785703, was switched off and the name on True Caller showed Benedicta and her picture. 