Former Nigeria U-17 star and one of the most influential youths in northern Nigeria, Abba Bichi, has congratulated President-elect Bola Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress on his victory in the 2023 presidential election. Tinubu, a former two-time governor of Lagos, was in the early hours of Wednesday declared winner of the presidential election by INEC Chairman Mahmood Yakubu at the National Collation Centre of the commission in the International Conference Centre in the Federal Capital Territory. Yakubu said Tinubu secured a total of 8,794,726 votes while Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party had the second-highest figure with 6,984,520 votes, while Peter Obi of the Labour Party (LP) was next with 6,101,533. In what has been described as the most closely fought and tightest presidential election in the history of Nigeria since the return of democracy in 1999, Tinubu”s emergence as the next president of Nigeria signals a maturing democracy as all the top three candidates won in 12 states each, signifying a widening of the political space for new entrants like the Labour Party. And latching on the euphoria that has greeted the victory of the candidate of the APC, a former Golden Eaglets star Abba Bichi, who from the onset of Tinubu’s decoration to contest for the presidency, had been mobilizing support for the former senator, has been quick to celebrate the president-elect. Bichi has also visited Tinubu to celebrate the latter’s victory at the polls. In video and picture posts circulated on his verified Instagram page, Bichi, who commands a huge following across all his social media accounts, said he was excited to have contributed his quota towards Tinubu’s electoral success. In one of the telling images shared online, Bichi posed for a close-up photo with Tinubu, with the caption reading “Alhamdulai” and the image generated more than 10,000 likes as at 1:29pm Nigerian time. In another video post , Bichi, who crisscrossed the length and breadth of northern Nigeria to galvanize youths to vote for Tinubu, was seen basking in the victory in the company of the Jagagban himself. He captioned the post, liked more than 12,000 times, “celebrating with the president elect of the Federal Republic of Nigeria”. 