The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), the Ibadan Zonal Command, has secured the conviction and sentencing of thirty-seven (37) Internet fraudsters to various terms of imprisonment, fines, and community service. The convicts who were prosecuted before Justices Mohammed Owolabi, Ladiran Akintola and Mojeed Oladimeji Ishola of the Oyo State High Court, Ibadan; Justices Olanrewaju Mabekoje, A.A. Babawale, O.O. Majekodunmi and O. Ogunfowora of the Ogun State High Court, Abeokuta and Justice Ayo Emmanuel of the Federal High Court, Osogbo, Osun State between January 10 and March 06, 2023, include Olubanji Remilekun Dare, Abdullahi Olalekan, Salau Olalekan Abdulazeez, Joshua Jimoh Showemimo, Awotunde Joseph Sunday, Abegunde Oluseye James, Sadu Noah Babatunde, Emmanuel Oluwasanya, and Joshua Opeyemi Okunlaja. They also include Emefele Collins Kelvin, Lateef Afeez Abiodun, Salawu Bolaji Ismail, Azeez Alao Rasaq, Akinleye Abdul-Azeez Oloruntosin, Quincy Olise Okonma, David Olateju Olayiwola, Balogun Ibrahim Olanrewaju, Adebayo Waris Bolaji, Makinde Taiwo Busola, Ojekunle Ifakorede Apesinola, Akorede Ibrahim Abimbola, Olowofela Ganiyu Omolaja, and Olatunde Zaccheus Sulaiman. Others are Fagbamiye Temitope Akinola, David Mautin Sadagbande, Odunjo Fodirudeen Bamidele, Abayomi Gideon Ayeni, Folorunsho Samuel Oluwatobi, Amoo Abdulmalik Ademola, Shittu Toheeb Ife, Stephen Godwin Olawoye, Oladimeji Ayomide Michael, Arasi Taiwo Bolaji, Sulaiman Lateef Damilare, Olori Daniel Oluwaseun, Ganiu Jamiu Adufe and Akinlagun Oyindamola Tomiwa. Upon their arraignments on a separate one-count charge each, they pleaded “guilty” except Fagbamiye Temitope Akinola who pleaded ‘not guilty’ and the case went into full trial. Fagbamiye was arraigned on 18 counts which bordered on money laundering, an offence contrary to Section 15 (2) (d) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011 (as Amended) and punishable under Section 15 (3) of the same Act.
During the trial, the prosecution called one witness and tendered 10 exhibits that were admitted in evidence. On February 7, 2023, Justice Emmanuel, in his judgment, pronounced Fagbamiye Temitope Akinola guilty as charged and sentenced him to two years imprisonment on each of the 18 counts, which is to run concurrently. Justice Emmanuel, however, gave the convict an option of N200, 000.00 (Two Hundred Thousand Naira) fine on each of the 18 counts, amounting to N3.6 million (Three Million, Six Hundred Thousand Naira). Other convicts were sentenced to different jail terms ranging from two months to one year of community service or three months to one-year imprisonment with the option of fines. Also, the courts ordered that the convicts restitute their victims and forfeit all items recovered from them to the Federal Government of Nigeria.