• Youths Implore gov to lobby non-indigenes
• LP urges Lagosians to repeat Feb 25 feat Special Adviser to Lagos State Governor on Drainages, Joe Igbokwe, has appealed to Igbo indigenes in the state to vote en masse for Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and other All Progressives Congress (APC) candidates in the March 11 governorship and House of Assembly elections. Igbokwe, who leads Ndigbo in Lagos APC, while addressing the press in Lagos, in company of Jude Idimogu, said the Igbo needed to support the president-elect, Bola Tinubu. He warned the Igbo not to allow a repeat of last Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly election result, in which APC lost to Labour Party (LP). Igbokwe described the outcome of the federal election as appalling, urging improvement in the state elections. On the threat to Igbo in Lagos and their businesses, Igbokwe assured the Igbo that no threat against them would work because the matter was being addressed. YORUBA Youth Socio-Cultural Association (YYSA) has felicitated with Tinubu on his victory, commending him for his tenacity, courage and high-level focus that yielded positive result. In a statement, yesterday, the National President, Habib Hammed, and National Secretary, Olawale Ajao, the group noted that Nigeria needed such a courageous person with enormous administrative and political experience to be successful. “Surely, with Tinubu as Nigeria’s president, hope has been renewed and there is light at the end of the tunnel for Nigerians,” they said.The group implored Sanwo-Olu not to see Igbo people in Lagos as enemies or ingrates but relate with them cordially to move Lagos forward. “There is no doubt that Igbo people are contributing immensely to the state’s economy even more than transporters. We (Yoruba) should ensure that our relationship with Igbo and other ethnic groups in Lagos continue to be healthy for we are blessings to each other.” HOWEVER, governorship candidate of LP in Lagos, Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour, has appealed to Lagosians to repeat the support it gave to its presidential candidate, Peter Obi, and other candidates of the party on February 25 at the governorship election next week. 