The Senator-elect for Delta Central Senatorial District, Chief Ede Dafinone has expressed his appreciation to God and the good people of Delta Central for their overwhelming support leading to his victory at the senatorial elections held on February 25th, 2023. According to the INEC Returning Officer for the senatorial district election, Prof. Ezekiel Agbalagba while declaring the result said, the renowned chartered Accountant and Business mogul now turned politician, who ran on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, APC polled 109,197 votes to defeat his closest rival, Senator Ighoyota Amori of the PDP who scored 101,385 votes. Speaking after his declarations, Chief Dafinone said he was going to be a Senator for the entire people of Delta Central irrespective of political or ethnic affiliation, adding that his victory will usher in people-focus representation at the red chamber. He applauded APC leaders, members of the Ede Dafinone Campaign Organisation, and party faithfuls, for their unflinching support during and after the election by standing up to defend the votes freely cast for APC and ensuring that the votes count. “I want to thank the Almighty God who made this victory possible and also appreciate our party leaders, party faithfuls, our campaign team, community leaders, support groups and everyone who made this historic day a reality. “I am deeply touched and overwhelmed by your support and I want to assure you that I am going to work round the clock and ensure that your concerns and voices are heard at the red chamber. “I want to assure all Delta Central that I will be a senator for all irrespective of political or ethnic affiliations because we are determined to make this district greater. “Together we can achieve so many great things. So, I will constantly be relating with you so that we can achieve our goals of developing the Urhobo Nation, and now is the time to be united as a people. “We have more work ahead of us, we must deliver our Deputy Senate President and the All Progressive Governorship candidate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege as our next governor of Delta State. We must also deliver all APC House of Assembly candidates in the next election. We will not rest, nor sleep until we deliver them. When we finish the governorship election before we celebrate. “From this point on, I want to assure you that your struggles, concerns and hopes will be mine. We have a lot of work ahead. I will be accessible and responsive to you as much as possible. ‘I am humbled and grateful for judging me worthy of service to you. Thank you very much, I am grateful.” 