A funfilled action-adventure show, Batwheels, combining two of a young kids’ favourite, Superheroes and vehicles is set to launch on Cartoonito Africa. Speaking to The Guardian, creator and showrunner, Batwheels, Michael Stern said that the idea was to find a way to introduce Batman to young kids, “we did it in a way that we introduce them to a batman that everyone gets to enjoy, not just a kid’s version of batman, but a batman everyone gets to enjoy, that was the real challenge. “So we found that making a real batman would communicate what we all loved about batman and we created the core characters to be the kid characters of the show, so the audience could see the world through the eyes of the kid characters. We see we found a good balance into this, having let the kids into the world of batman.” Stern noted that the young audience is really underestimated, “while most people believe that you have to limit what you expose children to, to a certain level it is true, but then in a project like batwheels, you cannot underestimate the audience.” Executive Producer, Batwheels, Simeon Smith, said, “I have children and what we have done with batwheels is that we have given them a number of sophisticated executions of the show compared to other shows, the fact that the show is at night, unlike other preschool shows in day time with floppy clouds and bright sunshine, all our shows are at night because that’s when batman comes out. “So the approach was, let’s make Batwheels feel like a theme park, which is where families go at night and feel safe and that is the fun way we have approached the show. So, it is fun and adventures for kids.” With the rebranding of Cartoonite Africa, Editorial Lead: Southern Europe and Africa, Kids Brands, Warner Bros. Discovery, Ana Gonzalez said, “the rebrand of Boomerang Africa into Cartoonito Africa enriches our channel universe, bringing together the crème de la crème of Boomerang with more adventures and more friends to be part of one big Cartoonito family. We know kids and families love our shows, and we’re looking forward to adding even more amazing content that brings the whole family together.” Leading the rebranded channel is Secret Origins of the Batwheels which kicks off at 08:40 CAT on 25 March. Batwheels will debut a half-hour prequel special, Secret Origin of the Batwheels, on Cartoonito Africa on Saturday, 25 March 2023, at 08:40, which will tell the backstory of how the Batwheels came to be. The heroic Batwheels are a team of incredible crime fighters who have banded together to oppose evil, combat crime and clean up the streets of Gotham City. They’re the Batwheels – an awesome group of sentient super-powered crime-fighting vehicles defending Gotham City alongside Batman, Robin, and Batgirl. Having just been created by the Batcomputer, its heroes are essentially kids with little to no life experience. Led by Bam (the Batmobile), the Batwheels – Bibi (the Batgirl Cycle), Redbird (Robin’s Sports Car), Batwing (the Batwing Jet Plane), and Buff (the Bat Truck) – must navigate the growing pains of being a newly formed super-team as well as the growing pains that come with just being a kid.