President Muhammadu Buhari has called on Nigerians living in Doha, Qatar, to support President-elect, Sen. Bola Tinubu, as he takes over the reins of government on May 29. Malam Garba Shehu, the President’s media aide in a statement on Wednesday said the president made the call at a Town Hall meeting as part of his visit to the State of Qatar, on Tuesday. Buhari said his administration set forward to emplace credible, transparent and fair elections which will conclude on March 11, with the Governorship and State Assembly elections. He, therefore, called on them to “support the incoming government of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, so that Nigeria will continue to be the beacon of hope and prosperity in our continent and an example for other African countries to emulate.” Speaking further, the president acknowledged the noble roles that Nigerians in Diaspora all over the world had been playing in the development of Nigeria. He added that his administration had approved a National Diaspora Policy, and supported the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM) all the way to develop programmes for the engagement of Nigerians in the Diaspora for the ‘ambassadors’ to contribute their quota towards the development of their fatherland. In his remarks, the Nigerian Ambassador to the State of Qatar, Yakubu Ahmed congratulated Buhari for conducting successful Presidential and National Assembly elections on Feb. 25, 2023. According to him, the process has proven that Nigeria’s democracy is indeed strong while praying for an equally successful Governorship and State Assembly elections. Ahmed informed the president that Nigeria and the State of Qatar had maintained a brotherly bilateral relationship since the establishment of diplomatic ties in 2013. According to the ambassador, there are currently about 7,000 Nigerians residing in Qatar and gainfully engaged in diverse areas of human endeavours. “I’m proud to inform you, Your Excellency that the majority of our nationals in Doha are professionals who have excelled in their chosen careers, playing critical roles in healthcare, safety, oil and gas, aviation, and construction, among other sectors,” he added Speaking on behalf of the Nigerian community in the country, Dr Arabo Ibrahim, a Senior Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist said he had every reason to thank the President especially for restoring peace in the North-eastern part of Nigeria. “Our people were chased out of Mubi in Adamawa State by Boko Haran terrorists, peace is back. ”Now we go there and sleep peacefully. There is a lot of food now. People from the neighbouring countries even come to buy food in Nigeria,” he added. Another member of the community, Prof. Akintunde Akinade, also thanked President Buhari for conducting an electoral process “alluded to as one of the best. We have gone through elections many times before and we all know what it’s all about. ”This is an election where money has taken a back seat. We’re very grateful to see what has happened this time in the presidential election. ”Thank you for bringing sanity to the country and the electoral process. We wish that this would continue.” He equally lauded the president for the infrastructural revolution in the country, his anti-corruption war, keeping Nigeria together as well as his well-known democratic crusade in Africa. “I really want to thank you for your unwavering critique of African Presidents that really want to stay in office forever. I wish you a well-deserved rest,” he added. The event was put together by the Chairman, the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri Erewa.