 Portrait of an attractive young woman cleaning her face with a cotton pad in the bathroom at home With trends like the “clean girl aesthetic”, “vanilla girl aesthetic”, with ice rollers, gua sha, lemon water, green tea, matcha and so on. It’s easy to get overwhelmed and impossible to keep up with all the latest beauty and skincare trends that pop up on your social media feed and timeline. So, we’ve decided to take it back to what REALLY matters and would work wonders on your skin naturally. It’s not always about splurging on products that promise to take all of your skin problems away. While we’d love to believe that the truth is most of these claims aren’t true. Everyone’s new concern seems to be how to get glazed donut-like skin, how to delay the appearance of wrinkles, how to get plump, hydrated skin…. And while these are reasonable searches, sometimes what your skin actually needs is a little everyday skincare ritual with certain ingredients that will calm and soothe the look and feel of your skin. After all these adjectives are retired, the end goal is to have healthy skin. So here are our tips to achieving healthy skin that is unique to you. Try Cold Plunging
We’ve seen celebrities dunking their faces into ice cold water for a few minutes. Little did we know that some of the benefits of this activity include elimination of puffiness, soothing sunburns and reduction of oil production on the skin.
“This allows your skin to better prepare itself for product application.” says an aesthetician. Incorporate Hyaluronic Acid
If you’re looking to get healthier supple skin, hyaluronic acid is your best bet.
Hyaluronic acid is one skincare ingredient that packs on moisture and hydration to the skin, it improves skin texture, skin elasticity, reduces the visibility of wrinkles among many other benefits. Exfoliate
The buildup of dead skin cells can lead to the appearance of whiteheads, blackheads and acne. Exfoliation is the key to bright and smooth skin. It is essential to get an exfoliant that is suitable for your skin type and can do what needs to be done. There are 2 types of exfoliations, they are; Physical and Chemical Exfoliation. Physical exfoliation makes use of refined granular particles to manually remove dirt and oil from the skin. While chemical exfoliation involves the use of safe skincare ‘acids’ that sink into the pores once applied, to remove the dead skin cells.
Exfoliation ingredients include Glycolic acid (AHA), Lactic acid (AHA), Salicylic acid (BHA), Sugar Scrubs (Physical) etc. Apply Sunscreen
There are so many benefits to being religious to the application of your sunscreen every day. It should be a staple in your routine and a bag essential as it is advised to reapply it as you move about throughout the day.
Apply a broad-spectrum SPF to protect your skin from harmful UV rays. Ensure your sunscreen contains at least SPF 30-50 to protect your skin from the harsh rays of the sun. 