The website of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) is down as of Monday morning. Sources told The Guardian that the downtime could be linked to the high number of applicants visiting the NDLEA website for its recruitment. Checks by The Guardian correspondent as of 12:48 pm on Monday showed the NDLEA website indicating ‘502 Bad Gateway’. Application for the NDLEA recruitment began on Sunday and is expected to last for two weeks. The website is, however, inaccessible at the time of filing this report. A screenshot of NDLEA website as of 11:30 am on Monday, March 13, 2023. READ ALSO: NDLEA begins recruitment for graduates, SSCE holders NDLEA spokesman Femi Babafemi was quoted to have said the ‘glitches’ are due to the traffic on the website. NDLEA last Friday disclosed that the application for its recruitment process would run from Sunday, March 12 to April 8, 2023. The agency said graduates of secondary schools, polytechnics, and universities can apply online with the application open for only two weeks. “Applicants must be of Nigerian origin by birth and possess a national identity number (NIN) while computer literacy will be an added advantage for all cadres,” NDLEA said. “Applicants are also required to tender all certificates at the time of recruitment as any other qualification presented subsequently will not be valid for career progression in the agency.” NDLEA said “applicants must be medically fit and must produce a certificate of medical fitness from a government hospital. “Candidates applying for the role of “superintendent cadre” must not be less than 20 years or more than 35 years while the age limit for “narcotic agent cadre” and “narcotic assistant cadre” is 30 years and not less than 18 years at the point of entry.” The agency noted that “persons over 40 years applying for the role of “medical doctors” and “articulated vehicle drivers” will be considered. “Medical and allied professionals must possess a current practicing license while lawyers must have been called to bar. “Applicants must be drug-free and also be of good character and must not have been convicted of any criminal offense. “Applicants must use their personal email address and phone numbers when submitting their applications online.” 