Music lovers in Calgary, Canada are in for a treat as Oseloka Ian Onyeachonam, also known as “Oseino” has been confirmed as one of the performing acts for the upcoming ‘CALGARY EASTER FEST 2023’. The multi-talented rising rapper, songwriter, singer, and executive producer has been making waves in the music industry with his unique sound and style. Born in Nigeria and based in Canada, Oseino has been making music since he was a teenager. With a passion for creating music that speaks to the soul, he has released several hit songs that have garnered attention and accolades from fans and critics alike. The upcoming Calgary Easter Fest 2023 is a highly anticipated music festival that will showcase some of the best acts from around the world. With a diverse lineup that features both established and up-and-coming artists, the festival promises to be a memorable event for music lovers. Oseino’s inclusion on the list of performers is a testament to his rising profile in the music industry. Speaking about the upcoming festival, Oseino expressed his excitement at the opportunity to perform for his fans. “I am thrilled to be a part of the Calgary Easter Fest 2023 lineup,” he said. “It is an honor to be performing alongside some of the biggest names in the industry, and I am looking forward to sharing my music with the audience.”
Oseino’s music is a unique blend of different genres, including Afrobeats, hip-hop, and R&B. His lyrics are inspired by his experiences and the world around him, and he aims to use his music to spread positivity and inspire people. With his infectious energy and undeniable talent, Oseino is sure to deliver an unforgettable performance at the Calgary Easter Fest 2023. The Calgary Easter Fest 2023 promises to be a must-attend event for music lovers in Calgary and beyond. With a lineup that features some of the best artists from around the world, the festival is a celebration of music and culture. For fans of Oseino, this is an opportunity to see him perform live and experience his unique sound in person. Oseino is currently putting finishing touches to his music anticipated debut album titled “Reality & Blessings”, which is slated for worldwide release on the 12th of April. 