Warns against fake news Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Idowu Owohunwa, yesterday, promised to institutionalise police-citizens Townhall (PCT) to enhance engagement with officers. Owohunwa said the launch was to demonstrate the importance he attached to citizens’ engagement in policing. He spoke at a stakeholders’ meeting at the Police Officers Wives Association (POWA), to review security concerns and collaboration towards addressing them. The meeting was attended by human rights lawyer, Femi Falana (SAN),  Adebowale Adedayo, known as Mr. Macaroni, Folarin Falana popularly known as Falz, Eze Ndigbo of Alimosho, Igwe Lawrence, Yinka Oguntimehin, who represented Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Gani Adams, among others.
 
Owohunwa, who said the meeting became imperative given police operational perspective, said the plan was to mainstream the initiative, which will be a forum that will be driven by Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) in Lagos State. 
   
The Townhall will comprise representatives of CSOs, relevant associations, youth bodies, media practitioners, and other strategic stakeholders.  He said: “The intention of the meeting is to bridge the communication gap, arrive at a consensus in our understanding of current security issues, and present a common front to proactively douse undue tensions.
   
“While all these efforts are being emplaced, a major challenge remains the genuine fear of crime by Lagosians on the one hand, and the manipulation of the media space by faceless elements to spread fake news that could fuel apprehension, sense of insecurity, and engender major security threat. Regardless of the reality on the ground, some facts remain fundamental.	   
   
“In convening this meeting, I hold the firm professional conviction that the best policing strategy is one that is founded on the principle of inclusivity, trust, public consent, collaboration and bridging of the gap between the police and the citizens for optimal and cost-effective law enforcement service delivery.”