Over 1,250 terrorists, families surrender to army over ISWAP attacks Suspected Boko Haram terrorists have abducted seven people from Ngamma community of Magumeri Local Council of Borno State. The abduction followed the terrorists’ storming of Ngamma on March 2, 2023, in the north-west part of the local council. A counter-insurgency expert in the Lake Chad region, Zagazola Makama, disclosed, yesterday, in Maiduguri that the terrorists kidnapped three men and four women at gunpoint. “After the villagers were abducted on Thursday evening, they were ferried away towards Gudumbali, a border community with Niger Republic,” he said. In another development, a military source in Maiduguri also said that Boko Haram terrorists were exposed to hunger and hardship due to the consistent attacks by the Nigerian military and Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP), stating that they were forced to kidnap people for ransom. According to the source, over 300 Boko Haram terrorists surrendered in a week to Nigerian troops in Konduga, Bama and Mafa local councils in the state. His words: “The ISWAP terrorists dislodged the strongholds of the Boko Haram at Gaizuwa in the axis of Mantari-Gabchari-Maimusari in Bama Local Council of the state.” ALSO, no fewer than 1,250 Boko Haram terrorists and their families have surrendered to troops of the Operation Hadin Kai (OPHK) in the North East. The terrorists’ surrender followed seven days of deadly clashes between Boko Haram and ISWAP that claimed over 200 terrorists and their families. Makama disclosed, yesterday, in Maiduguri: “ISWAP carried out reprisal attacks on Boko Haram terrorists on February 25 and 27, 2023 in Gaizuwa, Mantari, Gabchari, Kashimiri and Maimusari, in Bama Local Council of Borno state.” According to him, the survivors were forced to flee their hideout camps along with their families towards the Mandara Mountains in Gwoza Local Council. A top military source, in Maiduguri, also stated that the ISWAP, however, intercepted the fleeing terrorists at Yale in Konduga Local Council and Choliye in Gudumbali Community and killed over 200 of them. The source added: “ISWAP stormed another hideout in Asinari, Ashanari and Masarmari areas in Konduga on March 1, 2023, and killed scores of the Boko Haram terrorists.” It explained that the continuous inter-rivalry clashes of the groups led to the massive surrendering of the militants in Mafa, Konduga and Bama local councils. 