Wema Bank Plc said it would continue to give Nigerian women-led businesses access to funds, while sustaining other forms of support to bridge the gender gap in the corporate world. At its event commemorating International Women’s Day, the bank said its pro-women lending and mentorship platform, SARA by Wema, would continue to live up to the expectation of female entrepreneurs across the country. Its Managing Director, Moruf Oseni, said SARA would continue to serve as an outpost of its mandate to support the entrepreneurial exploits of Nigerian women. According to him, embracing equity in the corporate environment is a major step toward building inclusive economic growth. He said Wema Bank would continue to champion equity in the workplace, giving equal opportunity to both genders to succeed in their career aspirations. Head of Corporate Sustainability, Abimbola Agbejule, said the bank has, through SARA, contributed to the success story of Nigerian female entrepreneurs. She added that efforts to replicate the success story across sectors and regions would require more collaboration among women groups. The Head of SARA by Wema, Abiola Nejo, said the product is about connecting, empowering and inspiring women. “SARA by Wema is for every woman: young female professional adult, irrespective of class or socio-economic status.
It is a proposition designed with the sole purpose of improving the financial, economic and social life of women. “As part of the efforts of SARA by Wema to build its community for supporting women, Wema Bank is a signatory to United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP). We are committed to making a difference for gender equality and women’s empowerment in the workplace, marketplace and community,” she said. While SARA focuses on the market, the bank at the event unveiled the Big Sister Project, a shared mentorship platform for female employees of the bank. The project, Oluwatoyin Karieren, the bank’s chief commercial officer, said would support the female staff in their aspiration to achieve career success. 