Four main clubs, Chelsea, Paris Saint-Germain, Manchester United and Manchester City have held talks with Napoli for the services of Victor Osimhen, according to Sky Germany. Super Eagles attacking sensation, Osimhen can be regarded as one of the best strikers in the world right now following his goal-scoring heroics for Napoli so far this season. Osimhen has become a symbol of the Partenopei’s Scudetto charge during the 2022/23 season, scoring 19 goals in 22 Serie A games while becoming a legendary figure in Naples. He looks good to lead Napoli to their first Serie A title in 33 years. It is therefore unsurprising that a host of top sides have been linked with Man United among them. Man United face major complications in their pursuit of Osimhen amid Sky Germany’s reports that Chelsea and Man City are among those to have held talks for the 24-year-old who is expected to cost a significant sum this summer. News of City’s interest will come as a surprise to many given that Erling Haaland and Julian Alvarez are already battling it out for the lone central starting spot under manager, Pep Guardiola. Chelsea, meanwhile, have sorely lacked goals this season but a lack of Champions League football could make it tricky to land Osimhen unless they close the gap on the Premier League top four in the latter stages of the season. According to Sky Germany, PSG are also said to be interested in landing the signature of Osimhen, although Bayern Munich reportedly aren’t in the race. Meanwhile, Osimhen contributed an assist to help Napoli defeat Atalanta 2-0 in an Italian Serie A fixture that took place at the Diego Armando Maradona Stadium on Saturday afternoon. He was hugely instrumental to the Partenopei opening the scoring in the Italian top-flight encounter after laying down a lovely assist to Khvicha Kvaratskhelia in the 60th minute. Since joining Napoli in the summer transfer window of 2020 for a fee of €70m, he has scored a hugely impressive 49 goals and 14 assists in only 89 appearances in all competitions. 