Coach Isah Ladan Bosso believes he has the men to push Uganda’s Hippos off the way in their Africa U-20 Cup of Nations quarterfinal duel tomorrow and reach the FIFA U-20 World Cup finals scheduled for Indonesia from May 20 to June 11.  Four years later, in Saudi Arabia, the Flying Eagles lost 0-2 to Portugal in a classic Final in Riyadh. And in 2005, Lionel Messi and Argentina were 2-1 winners in the Final match in The Netherlands. The Hippos of Uganda finished top of their Group B, which also included Congo, South Sudan and the Central African Republic. They defeated Central African Republic 2-1, and drew 2-2 and 0-0 with Congo and South Sudan respectively. It took a drawing of lots by the Confederation of African Football (CAF) to separate Uganda and Congo and determine the winner of Group B, as both teams finished with the same statistics.
 
Meanwhile, the Flying Eagles will be without the services of team captain Daniel Bameyi due to accumulation of two yellow cards. The defender was cautioned twice in the group games against Senegal and Mozambique.
 
In the other quarterfinal games, nine-pointer The Gambia will take on fresh birds South Sudan, who shocked Central African Republic 1-0 and drew 0-0 with Uganda to finish in third place in Group B with four points. Their only defeat was a 1-2 reverse against Congo. The match will hold at the Haras El-Hedood Stadium in Alexandria on Friday.
 
Before the Flying Eagles take on Uganda in Ismailia, Group A winners, Senegal, will tango with Benin Republic at the Cairo International Stadium. The Young Cheetahs finished in third place in Group C with only two points having drawn with Zambia and Tunisia, but unlucky to concede an own goal two minutes to the end of their encounter with group winners The Gambia on Monday.
 
The last quarterfinal duel is between Congo and Tunisia, at the Cairo International Stadium on Friday evening. The North Africans pulled their weight to defeat Zambia 2-1 on Monday, after having lost 0-1 to The Gambia and drawing 0-0 with Benin Republic earlier in Group C. All four winners will advance to the semifinals of the competition, but more importantly, qualify to represent Africa at the FIFA U20 World Cup finals in Indonesia. 