The outcome of the presidential election in Delta State, won by the Labour Party (LP) has thrown the March 11 governorship race open to All Progressives Congress (APC), the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and LP. The presidential candidate of LP Mr. Peter Obi was declared winner of the election across the 25 local councils of the state with 341,866 votes, trailed by PDP’s Atiku Abubakar, who garnered 161,600 votes, and Bola Tinubu of the APC, who polled 90,183 votes to emerge third.
 
Before the declaration of the results by the Returning Officer (RO), Prof. Ownari Abraham Gorgewill, of the University of Port Harcourt, at the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) state office in Asaba, tension was high, especially in the state capital over what many saw as undue delay in releasing the outcome.
 
Indeed, there was a mild protest around Koka area, a major transport hub in Asaba, but that soon fizzled out as the results were being announced by INEC. And since the results were announced, the capital city has remained calm, even though most LP supporters insisted that their votes were tampered with, saying the figures “allocated” to the party fell short of their actual number of votes.
 
With the number of registered voters put at 3,225,046; accredited voters, 667,149; total valid votes, 615,341; rejected votes, 39,309 and total votes cast, 654,650, LP secured over 50 per cent of the total votes cast.
 
The declared results, which were endorsed by the parties’ agents at the collation centre in the presence of security personnel and accredited observers and monitors, however fell short of what most LP supporters claimed to be the real figures. But whether the figures were real or less, they have set off a new political order in the state, especially regarding the March 11 governorship election.  DSP, as his supporters call him, is riding on the internal division in the PDP, which arose from its primary and which is yet to heal itself fully. And recent ability of APC in the state to put its house in order is surely yielding the desired fruits.
 
In addition to these, only a low turnout of LP supporters on March 11 can give APC victory, hoping that the current disdain against his party’s alleged manipulation and win in the presidential election does not trickle down to the governorship poll. 