The Chartered Institute of Forensics and Certified Fraud Investigators of Nigeria (CIFCFIN) has sought a cordial working relationship in the area of logistics and exchange of expertise with the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) in the investigation of all types of crimes and fraud in the country. The President of the institute and Chairman of Council, Dr. Ilayusu Gashinbaki, who led a delegation to Customs headquarters in Abuja, affirmed that the visit was aimed at creating a formidable and sustainable relationship between the two establishments. “We are here to introduce the institute to the NCS and also appreciate the good work Customs has been doing in terms of appreciable and remarkable height in revenue increase. We congratulate you on the huge success. “The institute has been around for a while, but President Muhammadu Buhari assented to the bill of CIFCFIN’s Charter on the December 23, 2022. The signing of the law is the singular most important legislative decision in the criminal justice space within the past eight years of this administration. It signaled the foundation of scientific investigation activities going forward.” “There are three components of the institute; the establishment of the Nigeria College of Forensic and Fraud Investigations, which will be responsible for training, certification, and professional development of law enforcement agencies. Forensic laboratories will focus on forgery. Digital forensic laboratory, which also will concentrate on the analysis of the entire cyberspace among others,” he stated. The Comptroller-General of Customs, Hameed Ali, who thanked the delegation for the timely visit, said that the method of detecting crime must be digitalised as most of the crimes are now been done digitally. Ali also noted that the NCS has a forensic department and will need more support to build and train its officers. The CG also referred to the arrest of a syndicate that specialises in cloning Customs documents in the Idiroko area of Ogun State. He said that it is one of the biggest issues confronting the service. 