Senators Chimaroke Nnamani and Ibrahim Shekarau are both former two-term governors of Enugu and Kano State. The two former governors, who represented their respective districts in the senate, recently joined hands to bring the operation of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) into further public scrutiny.  “At this point in time, a candidate can only get on the list if the duly and validly nominated candidate dies. Any form of withdrawal on grounds of voluntary withdrawal or incapacitation can no longer take place.”
   
Based on INEC’s stance, PDP’s attempt to withdraw from next Saturday’s rescheduled Enugu East Senatorial election, hits a brick wall. The question that follows is whether the party has power to restrain Nnamani from receiving the certificate of return of he wins or ask parties to proceed to the Election Petition Tribunal.
    
Riled by the attempt by PDP to frustrate his participation in the poll, Nnamani, who like Shekarau, is a member of the current Senate, has written INEC.
 While chiding PDP for withdrawing from next Saturday’s rescheduled Enugu East Senatorial poll, the former Enugu State governor declared that the Electoral Act 2022 stands as a better guide for electoral issues.He said PDP lacks the locus to abort his candidacy, insisting, “My candidature (for Enugu East Senatorial race) is irrevocable,” because his people and constituents have endorsed him.
 
His words: “I have been properly cleared by INEC to contest next Saturday’s polls. Besides, the PDP NWC cannot unilaterally remove me from the contest, because my purported expulsion is already subject of litigation pending before the Federal High Court in suit No. FHC/ABJ/CS/163/2023 seeking to set aside the said expulsion from the party.”
 
Further, the Senator noted that he had in a letter through his counsel Rickey Tarfa SAN notified the INEC Chairman, Professor Mahmoud Yakubu, that nothing has warranted him to withdraw from the race.
  
While assuring his constituents and supporters that his candidature for the election is irrevocable, Nnamani, who incurred PDP’s wrath by opening supporting the presidential candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, said it was too late in the day to stop him.
  
He remarked that through his counsel, Tarfa, he is already seeking an order of injunction against INEC from recognizing and acting upon the purported expulsion by the NWC. 