The National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) and stakeholders will be highlighting key standards, guidelines and frameworks for the development, standardisation, and regulation of information technology practices at the 2023 RegTechAfrica Conference. Director-General of NITDA, Kashifu Abdullahi, who confirmed attendance ahead of the conference, will discuss Information Technology policy objectives and provide frameworks within which the policies are implemented. Abdullahi, alongside other speakers, will discuss issues of overlapping interests between regulatory reporting and technology spectrums, and also look at different approaches in which technology and data can reduce the complexities in regulatory reporting, thereby increasing operational efficiencies. The conference, which is scheduled for May 24 to 26, 2023, will also focus on the development, challenges, solutions and economics of cybercrime, which is one of the emerging threats facing the global economies as a whole. The convener of the conference, Cyril Okoroigwe, said with the global Regtech market reaching over $10 billion this year, leading companies in the market and financial services sector are focusing on product innovations to expand their products, services portfolio, and gain a competitive edge. Okoroigwe added that the reality of a harsh global economy made it demanding to maximise cost efficiencies, increase requirements for sustainability as well as provide an increasingly heterogeneous financial market landscape. The conference will feature an expansive line-up of speakers, case studies, panel discussions, presentations providing access to a wealth of industry-leading knowledge sharing best practices and experiences, spotlighting trends, information exchange, insights, and outlooks with actionable takeaways. The event is focused on attracting top professionals with interests in regulations, compliance, technology, fraud, risk, monitoring, reporting, financial crime, cyber security, data management and identity management. Technology service providers will share their knowledge. Invited agencies of government at federal and state levels will share insights and showcase experiences in their domains, while international experts will provide perspectives on international best practices and use cases. NITDA is mandated by the National Information Technology Development Act (2007) to establish standards, guidelines and frameworks for the development, standardization and regulation of Information Technology practices in Nigeria. RegTech Africa Conference is the premier Conference on Regulatory Services Innovation and Excellence with focus on Africa. It provides the platform for regulators, regulated and key industry stakeholders to engage, collaborate and share knowledge around new technologies and practices that support better regulations 