Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has accused Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) national leadership of anti-party practice and self-destruct by virtue of its dumping of the zoning arrangement entrenched in the party’s constitution. He maintained that the decision to abandon zoning in clear violation of PDP’s constitution was largely to blame for the party’s defeat in the just concluded presidential election. Wike made the remarks when the three Rivers senators-elect, Dr. Ipalibo Harry Banigo, Barry Mpigi and Allwell Onyesoh, visited him at his private residence in Rumueprikom, yesterday, to present their certificates of return to him. The governor reiterated that Section 7(3)(c) of the party’s constitution promotes principles of equity, justice and fairness as it relates to rotation of elective and appointive offices. According to him, the decision to jettison the principle is worst form of anti-party activities. He said: “We are proud to have produced the three senators. Out of 13 House of Representatives members, they have announced 10, and we have taken nine. We believe that when election is done in the other ones, we will also emerge victorious, because Rivers State has always been with PDP as regards to issues of our local elections. “When our party abandoned the principle of equity, fairness and justice; when our party abandoned the provisions of our constitution, which is the highest anti-party (activity) anybody can do, they also have to pay for it. If you see that your constitution says this is what you should do, and you abandon it, you have committed anti-party (activity) more than any other thing.” Our own is unity of Nigeria, and that is what we stand for. Unity of Nigeria is far above party interest.” Wike said the All Progressives Congress (APC) governors deserve commendation for their nationalistic stance that propelled the party to zone the presidency to the south. The emergence of the president-elect of southern extraction, he observed, was made possible because of the premium APC governors attached to national unity. Senator Mpigi, who spoke on behalf of others, expressed their gratitude to the governor. “You have fought a battle to prove to us that you love Rivers State. Your Excellency, our mission here is just to assure you and reassure you that we are going to Abuja, not for ourselves, but for Rivers interest,” he added. Similarly, PDP National Vice Chairman (South-South), Chief Dan Orbih, said the lawmakers’ victory was a bold statement that Rivers people are appreciative of Wike’s commitment to the development of the state. 