Urges voters to protect ballots, not give in to apathy Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, yesterday, suggested a “better way” for Nigerians to “demonstrate against the sham election of February 25.” Atiku, according to results released by Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), emerged second after the winner, Bola Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The former Vice President thanked Nigerians “immensely for their high sense of patriotism in braving the odds to perform their civic duty” during the presidential election. “I truly appreciate their resilience, tenacity and courage,” he said in a signed statement, noting: “It is indeed heartwarming that they have faith in rescuing and rebuilding our great country, as envisioned by our great party, the PDP.” Atiku said: “As attested to by both local and international observers, the result of the February 25 presidential election, as announced by INEC, was grossly tainted and did not reflect the will of the electorates. “Nigerians have demonstrated against this blatant injustice through different mediums. And for that, I thank them again for their non-violent conduct despite the provocations. “Indeed, what INEC did in announcing the manipulated result was a clear breach of not only the 2022 Electoral Act, but also of its own guidelines, which the electoral commission had repeatedly claimed would uphold the standards we had seen in the Osun and Ekiti elections. Curiously, the INEC Chairman further ignored calls for a review of the process, in line with the amended law.” Atiku, however, maintained: “All hope is not lost.” According to him, “as citizens desirous of a better Nigeria, we must never give in to apathy. The electoral fraud perpetrated by INEC will be reversed in due course as we step up the cause to reclaim our mandate. “We must continue to show resilience in the defence of our democracy and in the exercise of our rights to vote. “Consequently, I urge all our supporters to turn out in large numbers on March 11 to cast their votes for the PDP in the governorship and state Houses of Assembly election.” He added: “There is no better way to demonstrate against the sham of an election of February 25 than for patriotic citizens like you to turn out en masse this Saturday to vote for a greater and prosperous Nigeria as envisioned by the PDP.” “I urge you to cast your votes peacefully and in strict compliance with the Electoral Act and INEC guidelines. And having cast your votes, be vigilant and protect those votes.” 