Ahead of Saturday’s governorship election, the Association of People Living with Disability in Ogun State has endorsed Governor Dapo Abiodun for a second term. Speaking on behalf of the association, the state chairman, Dr. Michael Ebornor, who commended the governor for looking out for his members during the COVID-19 pandemic, acknowledged him for the ongoing rehabilitation work at their secretariat. While commending the governor for adopting an inclusive government, he expressed the association’s belief in the leadership qualities of the governor. Calling on the state government to capture the people living with disability in its Health Insurance Scheme, Ebomor asked for the empowerment of some of their members with special vocational skills. He noted that the people living with disability need empathy and not sympathy, pointing out that they will give the governor 100 per cent support during the Governorship and House of Assembly elections. In his response, Governor Abiodun, commended the PLWD for brushing up their skills to be relevant in the society, disclosing that he would appoint a Special Assistant on the People Living with Disability. He added that the association would be provided with a bus to help the association with the movement of its members. The governor, however, called on members of the association to go all out on March 18 and vote for candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) all through. In a related development, the Organized Labour in the state has also thrown its weight behind the reelection bid of the governor. Leading the new state executive members of the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC), Ogun State chapter, the National Treasurer of the NLC and the President, Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE), Akeem Ambali, on courtesy visit to the governor at his Iperu-Remo residence, lauded the state government for its workers friendly policies, declaring that Ogun NLC is solidly behind Abiodun. He noted that the NLC, as partners in progress, it was imperative for labour leaders to show solidarity and chart a course with the government in power. Ambali commended the governor for the giant strides recorded in all sectors of the state economy, assuring him of the workers’ support in Saturday’s elections. The newly elected chairman of Ogun NLC, Comrade Hameed Benco, said the present administration has achieved greatly in education, health, agriculture, housing and in labour matters, describing the governor as a promise keeper. 