As the world marks International Women’s month, the minister of Women Affairs, Pauline Tallen, has called for a gender-responsive approach to innovative technology and digital education for increased awareness of women and regard regarding their rights and civic engagement. Tallen made the call at a media briefing for the commemoration of the 2023 International Women’s Day, (IWD), celebration, yesterday in Abuja. She said the 2023 theme ‘DigitAll: Innovation and Technology for Gender Equality’, highlights the need for inclusive and transformative technology and digital education among women and girls and also aligns with the priority theme for the upcoming 67th session of the Commission on the Status of Women, (CSW-67). The minister who observed a minute’s silence for all women and others who lost their lives during the ongoing 2023 general elections called for sober reflections and a renewed commitment to take appropriate steps in providing relevant strategies to address areas of challenges and consolidate on gains for sustained intellectual, political and socio-economic exploits of Nigerian women and girls. “International Women’s Day is set aside by the United Nations, (UN), in celebrating the historical culture and political achievements of women by organisations at all levels. “It also supports taking action against gender inequality around the world, appreciates the efforts of women in the socio-economic development of the society.” She explains. According to her “bringing women and other marginalized groups into technology results in more creative solutions and has greater potential for innovations that meet women’s needs and promote gender equality. Minister of women affaira, Pauline Tallen, ministry officials and partners at a briefing marking the International Women;s Day in Abuja PHOTO: Tina Abeku  Quoting the UN women 2022 Women’s Snap Short Report, she said “women’s exclusion from the digital world has reduced $1 trillion from the Gross Domestic Product, (GDP), of low and middle-income countries in the last decade; a loss that will grow to $1.5 trillion by 2025 without action,” she warns. She said that “Despite their many achievements, women and girls remain underrepresented in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics, (STEM), fields as they find a strongly male-dominated culture in STEM careers.” She, therefore, tasked teachers and educational institutions to be supported to consciously remove gender biases and stereotypes in the educational environment.