The All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) governorship candidate in Ebonyi State, Benard Odoh, has denied involvement in the murder of the traditional ruler of Umuezekoha community, Ezeogo Igboke Ewa. The governorship candidate and nine other persons were declared wanted by the police in connection with the murder of Ezeogo Igboke Ewa, who was killed by gunmen killed in his home on Sunday, February 26. Odoh, in a statement on Tuesday, said the allegations of complicity levelled against him are politically motivated and intended to undermine his chances of winning the Saturday, March 11 governorship election. He added that the allegations against him are false, malicious, baseless, spurious, and should be disregarded by the public. “I reiterate my earlier position in the media that I know nothing and absolutely nothing about the assassination of my traditional ruler,” Odoh said. “I am not on the run and cannot be said to be on the run for any reason whatsoever, but pursuing and seeking the resolution of the false and misleading allegation brought against me through legal and peaceful means. Odoh noted that he is not fleeing for any reason but to pursue and seek resolution of the false and misleading allegations levelled against him through legal and peaceful means. He added that he has secured an order from an Owerri High Court restraining the police or their agents from arresting or harassing him until the matter is brought before the court. “Nigerian law still presumes an accused person innocent until proven guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction. “I have already obtained an order: HOW/194/2023, from a high court in Owerri dated March 3, restraining the police and other security agencies from harassing or arresting me until the matter before the court is determined. “The inspector-general of police (IGP) and other security agencies have been served with the court order accordingly. “The IG upon being served the said order stopped all actions in the matter in respect to the Court, but the CP Ebonyi State, who is under the IG continued to take further action in the matter contrary to the order of the court.” Odoh urged his supporters to remain calm and resolute in their support for him to win the governorship election. 