The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) has charged contractors working on the road infrastructure and security architecture projects in Tin Can Island, Onne, Calabar and Rivers ports to hasten completion of the projects to strengthen the implementation of the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code (ISPS) in the country.  He said the essence was to ensure the ports were safe by reducing access to the number of persons entering the port,  as many had  no business to do there. He said this would reduce pilfering, thefts, thugs and miscreants coming into the ports, as well as creating an enabling business environment within the port location as required by the ISPS code.
     
The NPA boss also noted that the rehabilitation of roads leading into the ports and drainage, would  be completed in two weeks, as assured by the contractors, to ensure evacuation of water, especially as the rains are coming.
       
“We are aware of flood within this location. We are asking the contractors to look at it. We have created drainage outlets into the main creek – the Port Novo creek, just to ensure evacuation of water. We are also doing this at other ports across the country, Onne, Calabar and Rivers, to ensure the roads within the ports are in a good shape.
     
“We have also given contract for the concrete fencing of the ports. This is to look at the operations of the ports, to see what we have achieved so far in terms of improving sanity and ensuring that only those that have business in the ports get into the port,” he added.
     
On security of the waterways, Bello-Koko said the authority had increased security patrol and surveillance, working with the Nigerian Navy and the Lagos State government, as well as ensuring fencing of the waterfronts, which the engineers are looking into dud to the soft nature of the locations.
   
“Our security personnel are up to the task and we keep giving them all the tools they need. We have improved their communications and we will buy more patrol boats to ensure the waterfronts are also secured,” he added.