Football.London, yesterday, reported that Chelsea are prepared to offer Napoli star, Victor Osimhen, a huge salary to secure his signing in the summer transfer window ahead of Premier League rivals, Manchester United. The Super Eagles’ striker has scored 21 goals and provided a further four assists in 26 appearances across all competitions so far this season, firing Napoli to the top of the Serie A table. United have been heavily linked with a move for Osimhen after agreeing to terminate Cristiano Ronaldo’s contract ahead of the World Cup in Qatar, as they look to replace the five-time Ballon d’Or winner this summer. The Blues are in need of a clinical number nine this summer with Romelu Lukaku unlikely to stay at Stamford Bridge when he returns from his loan at Inter Milan, whilst Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang and Kai Havertz have both struggled for form in front of goal this season. According to football.london, Christopher Nkunku has agreed a pre-contract to sign for Chelsea at the end of the season, which will boost Graham Potter’s options in attack. Todd Boehly is expected to move on a number of first team players, including the likes of Christian Pulisic and Hakim Ziyech, which may pave the way for Osimhen to join the squad – but it will take a huge bid to lure him away from Naples. Chelsea have already spent over £600 million on new signings in just two transfer windows since the Boehly and Clearlake Capital consortium completed a £4 billion takeover at Stamford Bridge. Mykhailo Mudryk, Raheem Sterling, Noni Madueke and Joao Felix have all come into the team to bolster the attack, but the Blues have only scored 24 goals in 25 Premier League fixtures so far this season. The need for a clinical striker is clear and Osimhen would certainly fit the bill for the Blues. The Nigerian is one of the best finishers in Europe this term and has all the attributes needed to thrive in the Premier League given his height, pace and physicality. According to Calciomercato, Boehly is willing to double Osimhen’s current €4.5million (£3.9million) salary in order to beat United to his signature this summer. Napoli owner Aurelio De Laurentiis has slapped a price tag of €130million (£115million) on his star striker in the hopes of keeping hold of Osimhen for another season before he enters the final year of his contract. The report adds that Erik ten Hag has made signing Osimhen his number one priority this summer with United desperately in need of a new striker. Marcus Rashford has stepped up following Ronaldo’s exit from Old Trafford, but if Ten Hag and Boehly want Osimhen at their club, they will need to pay a British record transfer fee it seems. 