President-elect, Bola Tinubu, yesterday, arrived Lagos, promising Nigerians he would not disappoint them. He was given a tumultuous welcome at the presidential wing of the Murtala Muhammed Airport, Ikeja. The APC chieftain was received by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Chief of Staff to the governor, Tayo Ayinde, Senator Musiliu Obanikoro and other officials. The train, according to a statement by Tinubu’s media office, proceeded to Iga-Iduganran palace, where Oba of Lagos, Rilwanu Akiolu, and other traditional rulers were on ground to receive him. Addressing the modest crowd, the President-elect likened the primary and eventual election to a World Cup tournament, thanking God and the people for his victory. He said his message was one of gratitude, adding that he would work assiduously for Nigeria from the get-go. Speaking in Yoruba, Tinubu thanked Oba Akiolu and the other traditional rulers for their prayers and support. Responding, the monarch described the President-elect as a special breed “who is destined for leadership at the very top.” Other kings at the palace included Elegushi of Ikate-Elegushi Kingdom, Oba Saheed Elegushi and Oniru of Iruland, Oba Omogbolahan Lawal. Also at the palace were former Deputy Governor Femi Pedro, erstwhile Commissioner for Environment, Muiz Banire and State APC Woman Leader, Jumoke Okoya-Thomas. IN another development, Women Arise 4 Tinubu, a support group of the All Progressives Congress, yesterday, in Enugu, congratulated Tinubu on his victory at the presidential election. National Coordinator, Mrs. Oby Onu, said Tinubu’s victory was well deserved and evidenced the political mileage he had built over the years. She said she was optimistic that Tinubu would perform well; stressing that Nigeria would have a breath of fresh air under his leadership. She called on opponents who lost to Tinubu to embrace peace and join hands with the winner to right the wrongs of Nigeria, noting that in every contest a winner must emerge. Onu also called on the Lagos State electorate to turn out en masse on March 11 to re-elect Sanwo-Olu, to enable him consolidate on achievements during his first term. 