Download logo Today, President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi met with Prime Minister of the Republic of Iraq, Mohammed Shia' Al-Sudani. The meeting was also attended by Prime Minister Dr. Moustafa Madbouly; Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry; Head of the General Intelligence Major General Abbas Kamel; and Minister of Trade and Industry Eng. Ahmed Samir. Also present were Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister for International Relations Affairs and Foreign Minister Fuad Hussein, Iraq’s Minister of Trade Atheer Dawood, and Ambassador of the Republic of Iraq in Cairo, Dr. Ahmed Al-Dulaimi.  Spokesman for the Presidency, Counselor Ahmed Fahmy, said the President confirmed during the meeting Egypt’s unwavering support for the security and stability of Iraq, stressing that he values the strategic relations between the two countries. The President emphasized the firm fundamentals of Egypt’s foreign policy with regard to supporting Iraq and providing full support to the Iraqi people across all levels, particularly in the fight against terrorism and in efforts to solidify security and stability. President El-Sisi confirmed Egypt’s commitment to effectuating and diversifying frameworks of bilateral cooperation in all political, economic, trade and cultural fields. He also underlined the need to accelerate the implementation of joint projects, in accordance with the needs of the Iraqi people, and in a manner that reinforces integration between the two sides and achieves the joint development objectives. This is, in addition to furthering cooperation within the framework of the Trilateral Cooperation Mechanism between Egypt, Iraq and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. For his part, the Iraqi Prime Minister lauded the firm and historical brotherly bonds the two countries share, expressing appreciation for Egypt’s efforts in support of Iraq across all levels. He stressed Egypt’s keenness on strengthening the solid bilateral cooperation frameworks with Egypt, exploring mechanisms to further advance them toward broader prospects and benefiting from the Egyptian expertise in the various areas. This shall take place, in particular, in light of Egypt’s prominent role in furthering the mechanisms of joint Arab action in the face of the current crises and challenges in the region. Prime Minister Al-Sudani noted that this role is a model to be emulated in preserving and maintaining stability and in achieving progress in the developmental, economic and social conditions. During the meeting, the two sides exchanged viewed on a number of Arab and regional issues of mutual interest. They agreed on the need to continue intensive coordination so as to counter the challenges facing the region and achieve the aspirations of the peoples for peace and stability. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of The Presidency, The Arab Republic of Egypt.