Governor Dapo Abiodun, yesterday, approved payment of hazard allowance to health workers in Ogun State. He made the announcement during a meeting with health professionals at the Presidential Lodge, Abeokuta. The governor noted that the health workers had gone through a lot in the course of discharging their duties, hence the need to encourage them. His words: “I know that some of you go into depression and other forms of health hazards, so, I am going to approve your hazard allowance. “I want you to liaise with you on how to address the brain drain, which is affecting the health sector. I am sure with your collaboration, we can find a solution to this problem.” He described the state as an incubation centre for production of health professionals, adding his administration had intervened in the sector in the areas of budgetary increment, renovation of facilities, including primary healthcare centres (PHCs) statewide, while schools of nursing have been upgraded to colleges of nursing for improved teaching and learning. While pledging to provide adequate professionals to man the health facilities, Abiodun added that the Mother/ Child Hospital at Iperu-Remo had been inaugurated, just as a state-of-the-art blood transfusion centre is to be built in the state. The governor hinted that the state was partnering with the African Export Bank (AFRIXEMBANK) to complete and run the 250-bed hospital at Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, while efforts are geared at equipping others with laboratory equipment to enable scientists perform their duties creditably. He appreciated the health workers for supporting his administration through selfless services. In her welcome remarks, Commissioner for Health, Dr. Tomi Coker, appreciated the state government for improving the health sector by investing in PHCs, launching health insurance scheme and upgrading facilities in the health institutions. She said the gathering was to appreciate the governor for taking the sector to the next level in terms of equipment and welfare of health workers, expressing the desire of the workers to join hands with the state government to improve the sector. Speaking earlier, State Chairman, Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), Dr. Adekunle Ashimi, described the health workers as  “special people,” who are daily exposed to danger because of the nature of their work, calling for payment of hazard allowance to them. He said though the government has invested so much in the sector, more still needed to be done to raise the bar.