New research from the Ericsson Mobility Report team provides encouraging evidence for communication service providers (CSPs) worldwide by identifying a correlation between 5G uptake and revenue growth.  The link between 5G uptake and revenue growth in the top 20 5G markets underlines that not only is 5G a game changer, but that early adopters benefit. What is particularly encouraging about this is that while 5G is still at a relatively early phase, it is growing fast with proven early use cases and a clear path to medium and long-term use cases.”
  
As expected, Enhanced Mobile Broadband (eMBB) is the main early use case for 5G, driven by increasing geographical coverage and differentiated offerings.
  
Accordingly, the report noted that more than one billion 5G subscriptions are currently active across some 230 live commercial networks globally. It noted that 5G eMBB offers the fastest revenue opportunities for 5G, as it is an extension of service providers’ existing business, relying on the same business models and processes. Even in the top 20 5G markets, about 80 per cent of consumers have yet to move to 5G subscriptions – one pointer to the potential for revenue growth.  FWA offers attractive revenue growth potential for CSPs as it largely utilizes mobile broadband assets. FWA connections are forecast to top 300 million within six years.
    
The report noted that beyond consumer subscribers, there are growing opportunities in enterprise and public sector applications across the world.
   
It said 5G enables significant value for enterprises, with private 5G networks and wireless wide area networks being deployed for enterprise and industrial use.
  
Upgrading existing 4G sites to 5G has the potential to realize increases of 10 times in capacity and reduce energy consumption by more than 30 per cent, offering the possibility of growing revenue and lowering costs, while addressing sustainability.
  
Jejdling added: “Revenue growth and sustainability are recurring themes in my discussions with customers. In this special Ericsson Mobility Report edition, we have explored how service providers are tapping 5G opportunities. We see initial signs of revenue growth in advanced 5G markets with extensive coverage build-out and differentiated service offerings. An equally crucial aspect of 5G is that it brings cost advantages and helps service providers handle the data growth needed to drive future revenue. This can make 5G the growth catalyst that the market has been waiting for.”