The joint Admissions and Matriculations Board (JAMB) has postponed the 2023 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) mock to March 30.  It was originally scheduled for this Thursday. JAMB spokesman, Fabian Benjamin, in a statement, yesterday, explained: “The shift in date is partly owing to the change in the date for the gubernatorial and state Houses of Assembly elections earlier scheduled to hold on Saturday, March 11, 2023 but now moved to March 18. He said candidates, who registered early and indicated willingness to take the test, would be notified as to when to print their notification slips containing centres and other details. The mock is an optional examination introduced by JAMB to provide opportunity for candidates to have hands-on experience and ascertain the Board’s readiness and that of its partners for the main UTME, holding between April 29 and May 12. Benjamin noted that this year’s examination would witness innovations geared at addressing infractions and centre failures.  His words: “For instance, in the new regime, if there is a delay of up to one hour before commencement of a particular session, that session stands cancelled and would be rescheduled along with candidates. “By same token, no examination can be started one hour after the scheduled commencement time. The session will be scheduled for any vacant or available slot. The Board has made it mandatory that candidates must be notified of their new scheduled session or centre, as the case may be, before they leave their centre. In addition, no candidate would be allowed to spend less than one hour before submission of responses during the UTME. Similarly, the new regime would make it impossible for candidates to login after one hour of activation of examination. “If for any reason, an examination session is cancelled or cannot hold, candidates are not to panic, as they will simply be scheduled for the next available session, which could be that same day. What such candidates are expected to do is to quietly leave the hall and move to the Holding Area to await further instruction. Furthermore, they are not to leave the examination centre until they have been notified of the day and time of their rescheduled examination. “Candidates are to note that any rescheduled examination is strictly meant to accommodate only those whose examination session could not hold on account of one reason or the other, and not for those, who were marked late or absent for their session.” 