The Lagos State Social Democratic Party (SDP), Deputy Governorship Candidate, Olori Animashaun Abeni, yesterday, declared her support for the re-election bid of the state’s governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, citing his achievement in office. Abeni, who stated this in Lagos, formally stepped down as the deputy governorship candidate of the SDP and noted that Sanwo-Olu and his deputy, Dr. Quadri Hamzat stand head and shoulder above other candidates in the race, including her party’s candidate. She said the state cannot sacrifice the various land-mark achievements of Sanwo-Olu’s administration on the altar of bitter politicking, adding that the decision followed a thorough analysis of all the governorship candidates including SDP’s, their antecedents, pedigree, experience, manifestos and broad acceptance across the state. Abeni said the governor’s consistency as a progressive democrat is worthy of emulation by all budding politicians, adding that his energetic campaign through the nooks and crannies of the state further stands him out. She added that Lagos State is too important to be entrusted into the hands of ill-prepared, opportunistic and inexperienced political neophytes, adding that a vote for Sanwo-Olu would be an endorsement for continuity and greater development. Abeni said: “He has delivered on his social contract with the good people of Lagos through the famed THEMES mantra. It’s worthy of note that he literally saved the country from the scourge of COVID-19 through pro-active measures that underscored his responsive and responsible attributes. “Among others, massive road construction, investments in education, healthcare services, the environment, youth empowerment, tourism, public transportation, housing and science and technology need to be consolidated during his second term. “It makes a whole lot of sense for Lagos State to be in tune with the President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s Presidency at a time like this to achieve our age long desires and lofty aspirations. It is worthy to note that some of the circumstances that threw up a temporary Labour Party (LP) are being addressed speedily. “His message of  ‘Greater Lagos Rising’ reverberated with all and sundry and we can safely conclude that we have in Sanwo-Olu a governor who is resolutely committed to take our state to greater heights in the years ahead. “We wish to seize this opportunity to inform and urge all our supporters across Lagos State to vote massively for Sanwo-Olu as governor and his deputy Hamzat this Saturday to continue on the path of taking our state to an enviable height.” 