•Joins Oyo Governor To Commission, Flag Off Projects 
Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, yesterday, lauded Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State for being party of those who ensured that presidential power moved to the southern part of the country. Wike and Makinde were part of the G-5 Governors of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) who refused to support the presidential candidate of the party, Atiku Abubakar, in the last Saturday’s poll. Their grouse against Atiku was that power must shift to the South after President Muhammadu Buhari, a Northerner has spent eight years. Eventually, Atiku from the North lost to Bola Tinubu of All Progressives Congress (APC) in the last Saturday’s polls. Speaking at the commissioning of the Dr. Omololu Olunloyo Airport Road and the Aviation Fuel Tank Depot, Ibadan, Wike said he was happy that Makinde was part of those who ensured that power returned to the South. Wike, who flagged off Dr. Omololu Olunloyo Park in Ibadan, said, “Let me on behalf of my entourage thank you for according to us this opportunity to commission this important project. I am not surprised with the performance of Seyi Makinde. He can only belong to the G-5 standing on their feet. It is those who are afraid and have nothing to offer that cannot stand firm and be bold and take a decision and say that we must put this right it, doesn’t matter who is involved. “Your governor has shown he has the capacity. He has shown he is a man you can depend on. He has shown that he is a man that will not tolerate complete slavery. “I’m happy that he is one of those making history by making sure that power shifts to the South. I have told people that those who fight for change, and those who fight for revolution may not be the direct beneficiaries of that fight. But today, all of us now are aware that when power finishes from the South, it will go to North. When it finishes from the North, it will return to South. It doesn’t have to be in the constitution before it can be implemented. I thank Nigerians for standing firm to see that this issue materialised.” Wike continued, “Seyi is doing quite a lot of things. Somebody has said here that you (Makinde) are humble, your own humility is infectious, but you are very dangerous. He is very humble; he doesn’t talk like us, but he is very dangerous. Somebody who is not talking when you see him in action, you will say, ‘is this Seyi really.” It would be recalled that the dualization of the Airport Road was inaugurated in February 2022. Makinde’s efforts to upgrade the Ibadan Airport to an international Airport took a new level as history was made when air flight was fuelled for the first time at the Airport. This was part of the activities at the twins commissioning of the aviation fuel dispensing facility and storage depot and Dr. Omololu Olunloyo Airport Road, as well as flag-off of the construction of Dr. Omololu Olunloyo Park at Alakia area of Ibadan. In his address, Governor Seyi Makinde said the commissioning is historic, being the first time an aircraft would be fuelled at Ibadan Airport, adding that with the projects, Oyo state would be placed on the path of sustainable development. Governor Makinde who named the road after former governor of the state, Dr. Omololu Olunloyo, assured that his administration will continue to honour the heroes and ensure their labours are not in vain. Responding, the Former Governor of Old Oyo state, Dr Omololu Olunloyo, expressed excitement at the honour bestowed on him by Governor Makinde, while also narrating his near-death experience. Earlier in his goodwill message, Commissioner for Public works, Transport and Infrastructure, Prof. Kehinde Sangodoyin said the commissioning of the various projects will continue to improve the economy and open up the state to local and foreign investors. Highlights of the event include commissioning of a 500,000-litre capacity Aviation fuel depot, 3.2km dual carriage, Dr Victor Omololu Olunloyo Airport road dualization, and flag-off construction of Dr. Victor Omololu Olunloyo Park.