Maintains vote for LP reinforces Obi’s quest to reclaim mandate Enugu  State governorship candidate of Labour Party (LP), Chijioke Edeoga, says he would not give political approvals that lack financial backing when elected governor. He said governors gradually slide into corrupt influences when they start engaging in lies, including approving projects that had no financial backing to please political interests and godfathers. Edeoga, who rebuffed claims that he had no manifesto, told journalists in Abuja, yesterday, that political godfathers do not want him become governor, because of his insistence on probity and accountability. He declared that his pact with people of Enugu is to be just and fair to all, stressing that being the candidate of LP has made him free from the burdensome demands of godfathers and temptation for corruption. He said: “Sometimes, state governors tend to favour their senatorial zones with appointments and distribution of social amenities with hope of future electoral benefits; I will not do such things. “Favouring one section in a multi-sectional society is like favouring one child in a big household. Any kind of favouritism is not right at all. Even the constitution does not accept that you favour any part or section, including where you come from.” ALSO, Edeoga, yesterday, said that voting the Labour Party during Saturday’s governorship and state Assembly elections would reinforce the massive support given to its presidential candidate, Peter Obi, during the last presidential election, and the desire to recover   the mandate through the court. He insisted that it would further demonstrate that victory of the party in the state during the last elections was not a fluke. He also urged voters to defend their votes during Saturday’s elections as a means of eliminating politicians that have turned economic resources of the state into private enterprises. Edeoga, who was addressing party leaders and supporters from Aninri and Awgu councils of the state, said he was aware of plans by certain political actors in the state to use violence and thuggery to influence the outcome of the polls, but believes that the people can resist such plans when united. While thanking voters in Enugu for springing the Labour Party to victory in the presidential, Senate and House of Representatives elections on February 25, Edeoga urged them to repeat the same feat during the governorship elections to cement the emergence of the party as the new platform for freedom and speedy development in the state.