The Paramount Ruler of Iwoland, Iwo, Osun State, His Imperial Majesty Oba Abdulrosheed Adewale Akanbi, has scheduled a special victory prayer session for the President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The event is scheduled to hold at his palace in Iwo on Sunday, March 26, 2023. According to a statement, the prayer session is primarily designed to appreciate “God who halted the political curse on Yoruba generation and seek a divine direction for a successful administration of the president-elect.” The monarch said the prayer of every responsible father is to have a successful son. “When your child is promoted, a responsible father will pray for divine wisdom to manage his new office and excel constructively.” Other dignitaries to grace the occasion, include the Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Chief Bisi Akande, the speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, Seyi Tinubu, Yoruba opinion leaders, stakeholders, political class and well wishers. “Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is the glory of the Yorubas. His victory is our pride. As a responsible father, I’m keenly interested in the success of my son. I’m dedicating a day to thank God for his victory that checkmated the generational curses on the Yorubas. “It’s still expedient to pray for a successful and prosperous tenure for our pride. The glory of Yorubaland has returned. Let’s rally round and encourage him. On Sunday, March 26, 2023, Yoruba stakeholders are invited to a special prayer session for the president-elect. “The session has neither political nor religious colouration. All lovers of Yoruba heritage are enjoined to attend the august occasion. “The president-elect, his wife, Senator Remi Tinubu, Chief Bisi Akande, Mr. Seyi Tinubu, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State, all South West Governors and other numerous guests.” Oluwo urged Yorubas to drum their full support for the president-elect, saying, “Our turn should be positively superlative.” 