The Director General (DG) National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), Prof. Christianah Mojisola Adeyeye, has warned Nigerians against narcotic medicines and substance abuse. She stated that the Nigeria Indian Hemp Act as well as National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Act prohibited the cultivation, production, distribution, sales, and use of cannabis and its extracts or derivatives for medical or non-medical purposes. The DG made this call, yesterday, in Lagos, at the launch of the 2022 annual report of the International Narcotics Control Board (INCB), held at the NAFDAC auditorium. She said that one of the control objectives is to ensure availability solely for medical and scientific uses while minimising the possibility of diversion to illicit channels and abuse. She noted that the policy thrust of NAFDAC is to ensure availability, access, and rational use while preventing illicit use and abuses. Adeyeye stated that to ensure adequate availability of controlled medicines, the agency in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Health carried out two quantifications of narcotics and estimation of psychotropic substances and precursors in 2017 and 2019. She said: “The result of these surveys provide the evidence-based estimation of our national annual requirements of these substances and enable the country to develop measures to achieve that delicate balance between access and control”. The Chairman/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) Mohammed Buba Marwa, commended NAFDAC for hosting the event, which sets the ball rolling for active participation by stakeholders. The Chairman/CEO, who was represented by Director, Planning, Research, and Statistics at NDLEA, Mrs. Victoria Egbase, said that over the years, the International Narcotics Control Board (INCB) has joined forces with member states and international organisations towards achieving the objectives of the International drug control Conventions. He said that Nigeria as a member country collaborates with the INCB in ensuring that estimates align with the availability of internationally controlled substances for licit and therapeutic purposes and strikes a balance in the requirements for narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, and precursor chemicals to prevent diversion to illicit use. “The annual global launch, therefore, is aimed at making adjustments and dealing with the pressing needs of member states as may be appropriate.” 