• Political, community leaders troop to Daura to congratulate Buhari
• Gbajabiamila celebrates victory for democracy, asks opposition to concede defeat Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) and Chairman, Presidential Transition Council, Boss Mustapha, has congratulated the President-elect, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and the Vice President-elect, Kashim Shettima, on their victory at last Saturday’s presidential election. In a congratulatory massage released on behalf of the Federal Executive Council (FEC), the SGF described Tinubu as a seasoned administrator, a technocrat of monumental proportion, astute politician and a committed party man, whose unrivalled determination is to move the country forward. The SGF observed that FEC has confidence that the incoming administration will build on legacies of the outgoing administration for a united, peaceful and prosperous nation.
Mustapha said that as Chairman of the Presidential Transition Council, he looks forward to working with the incoming administration and its team during the transition period. He added: “In this regard, FEC calls on Nigerians to eschew violence and other negative acts capable of eroding the gains of the current democratic process, while urging aggrieved political parties to employ legal means to seek redress as appropriate.” Cabinet ministers at the FEC meeting, yesterday, celebrated the victory of Tinubu and Shettima. Before the commencement of deliberations, they were seen exchanging banters and shaking hands, apparently congratulating each other on the outcome of the election. The Council, thereafter, approved N39.6 billion contracts for electricity transmission lines. MEANWHILE, President Muhammadu Buhari’s residence in Daura, Katsina State, continued to receive political and community leaders, yesterday, who came to express solidarity, following emergence of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate as the next president. Receiving Governor Aminu Bello Masari and the Emir of Daura, Dr. Umar Faruk Umar, Buhari said: “Bola Tinubu truly believes in Nigeria and is genuinely committed to the progress and sustainable future of Nigeria.” The President thanked voters for supporting the APC in the presidential and National Assembly elections and urged them to do the same in the March 11 gubernatorial and Houses of Assembly polls. Following a closed-door meeting with Buhari, Masari said the President is “more than delighted that the APC won this presidential election and in a peaceful manner. In Katsina, we had the election without loss of life, without any violence recorded. So, he is very pleased and happy about it. And reports from across the nation reaching him indicate quite a successful election. “As a President leaving office and getting a successor from his party, you don’t need to ask me if he was happy. The answer is positive. He is happier than the candidate because this is his election. It’s a verdict on the performance of his government. That is the reason people voted for the APC.”
ALSO, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, congratulated Tinubu on his victory. Gbajabiamila said Tinubu’s victory is a testament to his years of hard work, building of bridges across the country, tenacity, and belief in Nigeria’s unity. “The victory of the President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, is a victory for democracy. I have said, time and again, that Tinubu is the best for Nigeria at this time, and God has answered our prayers,” he said. The Speaker said he believed Tinubu would deliver on the mandate given to him by Nigerians, going by his track record, and called on candidates of opposition parties to put Nigeria first and concede defeat.