The Board of Premium Pension Limited has announced the appointment of Bennedikter Molokwu as an independent director. Molokwu succeeds Prof. Nat Ofo, who retired from the board recently after the completion of his tenure. The PFA, in a statement, signed by the company’s Head, Corporate Communications, Aliyu Ali, said the appointment is part of efforts to provide excellent services and repositioning for greater height. Ali also stressed that the new appointment is expected to deepen the sound corporate governance culture of the organisation in the industry. Molokwu, a law graduate of the University of Nigeria (UNN), Nsukka, was called to the Nigerian Bar in 1976, and received a Master’s in International and Comparative Law (Cum Laude) from Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Belgium. She holds banking and management certificates from various Business Schools including, Harvard Business School, Boston, Wharton School and Manchester Business School. As a development enthusiast, she attended programmes from reputable schools, such as Citibank Training Centre, New York, IMD Lausanne and Chicago Booth Business School. She is a member of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA) and Chartered Institute of Bankers (CIBN). Molokwu, who is a certified balanced scorecard professional, is a fellow of the Institute of Directors (IoD), where she once served as president. As a seasoned corporate governance practitioner, she has contributed to the institutionalisation of corporate governance in public and private sector boards where she served. Molokwu began her ascent on the ladder of corporate leadership at ITT Europe Inc. Belgium as a special assistant to the Director of Planning, then ITT Nigeria Limited. She worked with First City Monument Bank (FCMB), where she was an executive director, Credit Swift Limited as the chief executive officer, Triumph Bank Plc as chairman, interim management committee before becoming an independent board consultant. She served on the Boards of Crusader Sterling Pensions Limited, FCMB Plc and Standard Chartered Bank Nigeria Limited. 