The last time Kamaru Usman stepped inside the Octagon, he experienced something that was not all too familiar for the Nigerian Nightmare. The UFC star was handed a shock defeat at UFC 278 in August 2022 when he was beaten by a head kick late in the fifth round by Leon Edwards, resulting in a knockout. To add further salt into the wound, it was his first defeat in the UFC – his second overall – and he lost the UFC Welterweight Championship in the process. It was considered to be a huge shock at the time as he was one of the betting favorites for the contest. UFC and MMA in general has become a popular sport for wagering enthusiasts to place wagers on because it can provide plenty of excitement and unpredictability, thus making things extremely interesting. Some will compare it to the thrills that can be enjoyed when playing their favorite online casino games, as there is an element of luck involved. Nonetheless, Usman will be stepping back into the Octagon imminently, as he will be looking to go head-to-head with Edwards for a third time to try and reclaim what was his before that surprising loss. On March 18, 2023, Edwards and Usman will battle once again as they will face off in London, England, at the O2 Arena in a contest for the UFC Welterweight Championship. The ‘Nigerian Nightmare’ is the favorite to win the title, although there is no denying that ‘Rocky’ will make life challenging. The 31-year-old will have an advantage in terms of the crowd as he will be fighting in his home country, with the UFC artist hailing from Birmingham. Additionally, Edwards is currently the No. 1 ranked Welterweight fighter, whereas the 35-year-old Usman is currently #2. Both fighters have near identical records heading into UFC 286, with the British star having had one more professional fight. However, that was a loss. Both have managed 20 wins, but Usman has two defeats whereas Edwards has three to his name. Of course, there will be many that will be trying to predict the outcome of the upcoming fight in London. While it is only natural to try and guess which man will be having their hand held high and their name loudly called out at the end of the fight as the winner will be the most talked about, there will be many that will be interested in trying to predict how the fight will end. It is worth noting that the first meet between these two stars saw the ‘Nigerian Nightmare’ come out victorious by decision, and this is something that many believe will happen once again when the pair step foot in the Octagon. However, Edwards showed that he could connect viciously with his kicking ability as he caught Usman square on his jaw. If he gets an opportunity to do that again, then there is every chance that ‘Rocky’ will be leaving the O2 Arena with his title and the Nigerian will be heading home without his gold once again. 