Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet), has warned pilots and indeed, the public to be wary of thunderstorms and other hazardous weather events, as the rainy season commences in some parts of the country. In a release signed by the General Manager Public Relations Muntati Yusuf, the agency said “the onset of rainy season is in line with the public presentation of the Seasonal Climate Prediction made by the Agency in January this year.” The statement reads: “NiMet predicted rainfall onset to be earlier than the long-term average in most parts of the country during the 2023 Seasonal Climate Prediction (SCP). The onset is expected to start from the coastal states of Bayelsa, Rivers and Akwa Ibom in early March, progressively followed by the inland states and the central states.” It also noted that the recent thunderstorms recorded over parts of the coastal and inland states showed that the agency’s prediction was on-point, reliable and accurate. NiMet further cautioned that the weather hazard can cause significant disruptions in areas where thunderstorms are expected adding that the thunderstorms can lead to turbulence, lightning strikes, strong winds, heavy rainfall, downdraught, microburst, and hailstones. “All of these pose significant threats to safety of lives and property,” it warned. They added that the effects of thunderstorms are more hazardous to aviation industry, particularly the aircraft operations and passengers as thunderstorms can  cause delays, diversion and cancellations of flights, as aircraft are often grounded in the face of severe weather”. The Agency assured pilots  the aviation industry and airport users that it has installed weather monitoring systems, thunder detectors, satellite receiving ground-stations and Automatic Weather System (AWS) across the airports (and other stations) nationwide as a measure to mitigate the effects of thunderstorms to the aviation industry. The Agency has also developed a variety of products and services to help track the thunderstorms and its attendant hazards. The Pilot Briefing Rooms are always available for Services, it noted. NiMet therefore advises all Pilots and Airline Operators to exercise caution during flight operations (during this adverse weather) due to the commencement of the rainy season. The rains which are currently prevalent in the Southern parts of Nigeria and occasionally around the Central States, are usually accompanied by severe thunderstorms which are bound to affect air navigation, they reiterated. NiMet therefore enjoined Pilots/Flight Crew members to obtain adequate departure, enroute and destination weather information and briefing from NiMet offices prior to flight operations for effective planning in their air navigation operations.