Former Deputy President, Ike Ekweremadu and the Crown Prosecutor, Hugh Davies, had a series of fierce exchanges at the ongoing Old Bailey conspiracy trial, on Friday, when the latter continued with his cross-examination. In an exchange, Ekweremadu, who’s standing trial with Beatrice, his wife, their daughter, Sonia and Dr Obinna Obeta, replied the prosecutor, saying: “l’ve explained this in this court about 10 times that l didn’t want to influence him,” David Nwamini, the supposedly potential donor that the doctor had sourced for the family. He was responding to the question why he didn’t feel it was necessary to speak to Nwamini at any point. Shortly after responding to that question, the prosecutor asked again: “Why wasn’t it important for you to speak to him?” Considering that he was coming to London to donate his kidney to Sonia. Ekweremadu responded: “Let him decide for himself.” Continuing, the Senator disclosed: “l was waiting for him in Abuja to do that, if the transplant had gone ahead.” Moreover, while the Senator insisted that his family had been scammed of N4.5m payment made to Obeta, Davies had a completely different view. Ekweremadu told the court that though he suspected that Obeta was scamming them, he was willingly to get scammed, if his daughter got treated for her kidney condition. Citing a couple of payments made to Obeta, Davies said: “All these items have invoices.” He then asked: “Where’s the invoice for N4.5m?”  When Ekweremadu replied with “he didn’t send invoice,” the prosecutor said: “It was a criminal payment.” The Senator said: “It’s already documented,” and that it wasn’t a criminal payment . Earlier in the trial, Obeta had under cross-examination, admitted that the N4.5m he quoted and received on behalf of the donor and agent, was pocketed by him. During Friday’s sitting, Ekweremadu’s defence team read three character references from associates of the Senator after his cross-examination. Earlier in the day, Prof. Stanley Okolo,  a consultant gynaecologist and obstetrician, was also called to testify via video link. Meanwhile, his defence team has another witness lined up for Monday (tomorrow). After the judge adjourned, the Senator smiled and waved to his family and friends in the public gallery. Among them were one of his sons and his second daughter.