In celebration of International Women’s Day, a diversity and education group under aegies, Unstoppable Women of Web3 (Unstoppable WoW3), has announced it’s plan to provide Web3 and metaverse education for six million women in Africa for the next five years. The education group with mission to equalize the playing field in Web3, announced their commitment to provide Web3 and metaverse education for six million women in Africa for the next five years. The founder of Unstoppable Women of Web3 and Head of Business Development at Unstoppable Domains, Sandy Carter, said that empowerment starts with education, which is why they thrilled to lead the initiative to educate six million more African women on the metaverse. She said the initiative was launched in partnership with over 19 companies including African Leadership Group, African Women CEOs Network, Chipper Cash, NFTDomain, Polygone Labs, Sankore 2.0, Unstoppable Domain, Uoma Beauty and Virtual Brand group along with 17 other companies. Carter explain that, as a first step towards their goal of onboarding six million women in Africa to Web3 and the metaverse, Unstoppable Women of Web3 and Unstoppable Domains will expand access to user-owned digital identity through free Unstoppable domains, which people can claim for the next 30 days. She continued that, Web3 domains, like dranino.nft, give people ownership of their identity data, allowing them to create a portable, user-owned reputation across Web3 and the metaverse. According to her, ” in order to meet this commitment, the partner organisations will offer Web3 and metaverse education via a wide assortment of educational streams, programs, learning materials, in-person events, and online courses: The African Leadership Group will offer master classes and content on Web3 and the metaverse to their ongoing training and lifelong learning programs across Africa. “Africa Women CEOs Network will present a CEO Education in Masterclass Program designed specifically for women in Africa. Educational programs will be available online on the Unstoppable Women of Web3 official website and will be translated into Portuguese, French, and Arabic. “Chipper Cash will surface Unstoppable Women of Web’s Web3 and metaverse education within its app. Sankore 2.0, an Africa-focused blockchain community builder, will develop and organize online and physical courses on metaverse knowledge and blockchain code development to empower African women in Web3 technology. “Unstoppable Women of Web3 and Unstoppable Domains will provide free Web3 domain addresses to expand access to user-owned digital identity. They’ll also launch a set of blogs on digital identity on the Unstoppable Women of Web3 website, available in French and English, and issue special NFT-based Education Badges for women who complete the education programs.” She further explained that the group will launch a blockchain education stream in partnership with Alchemy. She noted that Africa is one of the fastest-growing adopters of blockchain, cryptocurrencies, and Web3 technology globally. The continent already features the world’s second-largest second largest Bitcoin market and a government-backed Central Bank Digital Currency. Africa also witnessed a 1,200 per cent increase in crypto payments from 2020 to 2021, showing a massive and rapidly growing demand for the nascent technology. However, like many male-dominated tech and engineering sectors, Web3 suffers from uneven representation. In 2021, for example, out of the 121 leading crypto companies, it was discovered that less than 5 per cent were founded by women, and women only represent 10 per cent of partners at crypto funds. She therefore noted that other partners supporting the initiative are: African Women in Fintech & Payments (AWFP), Afrilabs, Bookings Africa, Ejara, Eloy Awards Foundation, Emerging Africa Group, Futuresoft, Google Cloud, Kenya Blockchain Ladies DAO, Mission Impact Academy, Miss O Cool Girls, NairaEx, SpaceYaTech, The Product House, Thousand Faces NFT, UTU, Women in Management Africa (WIMA), and Women in Tech. 