Justice Sherifat Sonaike of a Lagos High Court sitting in Tafawa Balewa Square (TBS), yesterday, ordered the arrest of an immigration officer, Umar Mohammed, for disobeying an earlier summons issued to him over alleged assault. The order followed an application by  Alaba Kuku,  the state Counsel prosecuting on behalf of the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP), following Mohammed’s absence in court. The court had on January 19, 2023, during the last sitting issued summons to Mohammed  sequel to his refusal to appear in court to defend two charges filed against him by the state government. The Director of Public Prosecution (DPP), Dr. Babajide Martins, in an application, asked the court to issue criminal summons against the defendant, to compel him to appear for his trial. The state government had in a charge marked LD/120518c/2022 filed against Mohammed, alleged that he unlawfully assaulted one Oluwafemi Adeyemi Badiru, by slapping him in his office and causing his nose to bleed. The alleged assault on Badiru occurred on  July 30, 2019 at  Nigerian Immigration Service Ikeja, Lagos.
At the resumed hearing of the matter yesterday, the prosecutor, Kuku told the court that the defendant was served the summons and he refused to take it. He also showed evidence of oath of the service to the defendant. Ruling on the matter, Justice Sonaike ordered the Comptroller General of Immigration to bring the defendant
before the court in Lagos on April 4, 2023 to answer the said charge and be further dealt with according to law and adjourned to April 4, for mention. Part of the charge reads: “That you Umar Mohammed on or about July, 30, 2019 at the Nigerian Immigration Office, Ikoyi, Lagos State, in the Lagos Judicial Division did unlawfully assault one Badiru Adeyemi Oluwafemi while executing his lawful official duty.” His offence is contrary to Section 173, 174 (e) of the Criminal Law Ch. C17, vol. 3 Laws of Lagos State 2015. Justice Sonaike subsequently adjourned to February 28, 2023 for the arraignment. 