He will propel Nigeria to greater heights, says Masari Niger State Governor, Abubakar Bello, has congratulated the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, his Vice-elect, Kashim Shetima, and other National Assembly members, elected under the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC). A statement signed by Bello’s Chief Press Secretary, Mary Berje, described the victory as “the dawn of a renewed hope” to Nigerians. Bello observed that the 2023 presidential and National Assembly elections were keenly contested and highly competitive, commending the electoral umpire for a successful exercise. He pointed out that, though the process was not a perfect one, at least votes of the people counted, to a great extent, compared to previous elections in Nigeria.  He enjoined the president-elect, his vice and other elected candidates across party lines to see their victory as opportunity to serve and, most importantly, unite the nation to greatness. ALSO, Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State has described the victory of Tinubu in the just-concluded presidential election as the emergence of a true democrat and builder of men and space. In his reaction to Tinubu’s victory, Ganduje applauded the hard political struggle and commitment of Tinubu’s political dynasty, which include elements from across the nation, in making sure the presidential candidate won the entire process. ON his part, Governor Aminu Masari of Katsina State, yesterday, expressed confidence that as president, Tinubu would “galvanise the country and propel it to greater heights.” Masari stated this shortly after the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared Tinubu winner of Saturday’s presidential election. The governor, who congratulated Tinubu for the victory, also said he was confident the president-elect would bring engender the needed socio-economic development just as he did when he was Lagos State governor. He said: “I was an eyewitness; on top of heaps of rubbish were dead bodies, on the roads were Also dead bodies being marched, crushed by vehicles in the broad day light. “Even if your car had no air condition, you have to wind your glass up because of the ‘Area Boys.’ Today, Lagos is the safest city in Nigeria.”
SIMILARLY, Director General of the APC Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) and Governor of Plateau State, Simon Lalong, has also described the victory of Tinubu as an act of God, which has vindicated his many years of hard work, perseverance and commitment to the democratic development of Nigeria. Lalong, while reacting to Tinubu’s victory at Saturday’s presidential polls, yesterday, said APC has proven that it is a party that has diversity and acceptance among Nigerians of all persuasions. He thanked Chairman of the PCC, President Muhammadu Buhari, and the entire leadership for spearheading a robust campaign, which captivated Nigerians, as well as generated goodwill and acceptance of the ‘Renewed Hope’ agenda.