•Receives recognition for CSR initiatives in Zambia, Senegal
Dangote Cement Plc has expressed commitment to maintaining its partnership with host communities and relevant stakeholders to create an enabling environment for sustainable peace and mutual growth of communities within its areas of operations. Plant Director, Dangote Cement, Ibese Plant, Hazard Nawabuddin, who gave the assurance, said the company would continue to strengthen its relationship with the communities through purposeful social investments focused on socioeconomic development, job creation, job training, education, health and more. He was speaking through the Plant’s Head of Admin and Human Asset Development, Abu Sufyan, during the opening of a workshop with the theme, “Effective community and corporate relationship management skills’’ organised by Ibese plant for host communities’ representatives and stakeholders in Yewa North and Ewekoro council of Ogun State. According to him, the workshop is an integral part of the institution building and local content development drive of the cement company’s social performance, as a socially responsible corporate entity, adding that it will also increase stakeholders’ awareness on roles, responsibilities and expectations towards achieving societal and corporate co-existence. “The skills that will be imparted at the workshop will be helpful not only in the discharge of duties as community representatives, but also in the personal and business lives of the participants. Hence, I implore you all to see this as an opportunity for self-development and a deliberate investment in your growth and well-being by the company,” he stated. Nawabuddin expressed hope that at the end of the workshop, the participants would have been imbued with an enhanced vigour for renewed partnership, as everyone would have been better equipped with the expectations, roles and responsibilities of all parties. He said: “Ultimately, there should be reduced grievances, and elimination of social incidents, protests/crises, which will create an enabling environment for sustainable peace and mutual growth.” The Plant Director then encouraged participants to pass the knowledge from the session to other members of their communities and organisations for better understanding and appreciation of roles as such will also galvanise support from the remaining members of the community. Community representative participants who spoke on their expectations from the workshop, said the programme would help in giving them fresh perspectives on their roles as representatives and strengthen their capacity to negotiate with the company and boost the cordial relationship with the company management. They commended the management of Dangote Cement Plc for organising the workshop to coincide with the beginning of the year when the company will be coming up with their various CRS and social investment programmes. Meanwhile, Dangote Cement Plc has received special recognition in Zambia and Senegal, for its corporate social responsibility and environmental sustainability projects in the two countries. The employers’ body in Senegal, the Conseil National du Patronat (CNP) said it was recognising the cement maker’s Senegalese subsidiary for its green project in which the company planted hundreds of trees to mitigate desert encroachment in parts of the country. In the same vein, Dangote Cement Zambia’s Ndola subsidiary was given the Best Community Social Impact Award for Youth Development at an event organised by the Corporate Social Responsibility Network Zambia (CSRNZ). According to the organisers of the award, Dangote Cement, Zambia won the award as a result of the community skills training center donated to support vocational skills training for the less privileged youths in the community. The cement company also won in the Best Environmental Excellence Award category based on its Environmental Action in the Community through waste management and sensitisation programs. The Country Manager, Dangote Cement Zambia, Vipul Agrawal said, “I am delighted at the two awards. Our CSR projects are designed to have the best impact on the benefiting communities.” We will continue to embark on more projects that will change the face of our host communities.” Dangote Cement Senegal was honoured for its commitment to CSR and Sustainability at the opening of the “Assises de l’Entreprise”, an event which brought together the big companies operating in Senegal. The cement company’s “The Ngomène Green Wall” project received the CNP award for “CSR & Sustainable Development”. Ousmane Mbaye, acting Country Manager of Dangote Cement Senegal responding, expressed his appreciation and that of all his colleagues over the award. “It is with a sense of excitement and satisfaction that I receive the CNP “CSR & Sustainable Development” award on behalf of Dangote Cement Senegal. This distinction is a recognition of all the works done in the host communities in partnership with all the stakeholders”, he said. He stated that Dangote Cement Senegal will not rest on its oars saying, “We see this award as an encouragement to do more and better. And we will do our utmost to make it possible. Our ambition is to make Dangote Cement Senegal the undisputed champion of Sustainable Development in Senegal,” he promised. The Ngomène “Green Wall” project launched in 2019 is a high profile CSR and Sustainable Development policy designed by the company’s management and effectively implemented by the CSR and Sustainable Development Department to bring succor to the people. 