Struggling Leicester City will welcome a resurgent Chelsea to the King Power stadium on match day 26 in the Premier League on Saturday. Leicester will go into the clash with Graham Potter’s side on the back of four consecutive defeats in all competitions. The Foxes currently occupy 15th place on 24 points – just two points clear of the relegation zone in the league table.
According to SportsMole, Leicester could become the first Premier League team on record to have no shots on target three games in a row. Also, manager Brendan Rodgers is also at risk of making unwanted personal history – the 50-year-old has lost a joint-high 15 league games this season and could make that 16 if they lose to Chelsea. And to halt their poor run of form, Leicester must overcome a Chelsea side who they have struggled against in recent meetings. The last time Leicester recorded a Premier League win against the Blues was on 19 January, 2021, emerging 2-0 victors. And since that win two years ago, the 2015/16 Premier League champions have been at the receiving end against Chelsea. In their last four meetings in the English top-flight, Chelsea have won three and drawn one and that could extend following the London club’s recent impressive run. After struggling to record a win in the past few weeks, Chelsea managed back-to-back wins against Leeds (1-0) and Borussia Dortmund (2-0). However, it is imperative to note that Chelsea are winless in their last 10 road matches in all competitions – losing seven of them. On the injury front, Saturday’s game is expected to come too soon for James Justin, Youri Tielemans and Victor Kristiansen while Ryan Bertrand and Jonny Evans remain doubts as they build up their respective fitness levels. For Chelsea, among those expected to miss the trip to the King Power are Thiago Silva, Armando Broja and Edouard Mendy, while N’Golo Kante may not be considered for selection against his old club as Potter urges caution over his fitness. Reece James is expected o sit this one out due to illness, while Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang and Sterling are also doubtful for the match due to back and hamstring injuries. 