A detachment of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), stationed at General Hospital, Ilorin, has arrested an unnamed mobile police officer for allegedly assaulting a medical doctor in the hospital. It was gathered that the mobile police officer had brought his wife for treatment and later came back to assault the doctor for examining his wife without his consent. Consequently, members of Nigeria Association of Government Medical and Dental Practitioners (NAGMDP) General Hospital Ilorin branch,  had on Monday started a 48-hour strike action. The work-to-rule action involved the Consultants and Resident doctors of the hospital. Addressing reporters in Ilorin, the state capital, the chairman, Nigeria Medical Association (NMA) in the state, Dr. Abdulkadir Ahmed, after a congress of medical doctors, said that the strike action, meant to call attention of the community to frequent assault on medical personnel, would commence at 8:00a.m. on Monday, February 27 and end today at 8:00 a.m. The NMA chairman explained that the doctors’ action was not targeted at either the state government or management of the hospital, saying that it aimed to send a loud signal to the community and make the community take action to warn their wards. “Our gathering here is so painful to all of us. Just less than two months ago, one of our doctors was attacked at the UITH. The matter is still in court. spending lots of resources and time to resolve the matter, it just happened again. “On Sunday at about 5:00 p.m., one of our members was attacked while doing his lawful duty at the obstetrics and gynaecology unit of the general hospital, Ilorin. It was said that a man brought his wife at about 12:00 noon with a complaint that his wife was sick. Following necessary questioning and examination, treatment was administered and she was discharged to go home. Only for the husband to come back later in the day to attack the doctor, claiming that the doctor did not get his consent before carrying out an examination on his wife.” The NMA chairman, who argued that the wife is an adult that could determine to agree to be examined without getting consent, added that a female chaperon was inside the room with the doctor where the woman was examined. He said:  “The doctor did his lawful duty but he was rewarded with assault. Thank God for the presence of passersby and other staff who rescued the doctor. This is happening with the brain drain situation among medical practitioners in the country, coupled with societal challenges being faced by Nigerians, including doctors. For how long are we going to continue with this?” He commended management of the general hospital Ilorin and the state government, especially the state governor, among other stakeholders, on the proactive steps taken so far on the matter. The NMA boss, who advised members of the public to channel their complaints to appropriate quarters whenever they have issues to address, said that people should avoid taking laws into their own hands. 