The Enugu State chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has endorsed the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr. Peter Mbah, saying Enugu needs a leader with capacity to engender economic rebirth, industrialisation, job creation, peace, security and a thriving environment for investments in the state. CAN made its position known at the end of an interactive session with Mbah, in Enugu, stressing that his qualifications and preparedness for the job put him ahead of other candidates. The Christian body, therefore, urged Enugu electorate to vote for proven capacity, competence, character, outstanding track records both in private and public sectors, and not based on party or clannish sentiments. The Chairman of CAN in the state, Rev. Emmanuel Edeh, commended Mbah for the timely unveiling of his manifesto in October 2022, unlike some candidates, who aspire to be governor without presenting any manifesto for the people to know their plans, and how it suits them if elected. He said Mbah’s candidacy is important to the desired greater future of the state, especially given what he was able to achieve in the private sector. “Mbah is not a stranger to things he said he would do, because he has done them already with evidence and verifiable proofs in the private sector. We want people with proven record outside public office, not people, who have made politics their lifetime career,” he said. Describing Mbah’s governorship aspiration as CAN’s collective project, Edeh recalled that the PDP governorship candidate had done many laudable projects in the state, including construction of a state-of-the-art Faculty of Law Auditorium at the Godfrey Okoye University, a Catholic university, in addition to constructing roads, building of a modern hospital managed by the Catholic Church, as well as lifting youths through scholarships and empowerment programmes of the Peter Mbah Foundation. Also speaking, the Secretary of the Christian body in the state, Rev. Obiora Okeke, who cautioned Enugu people against electing career politicians at this time of economic challenges, extolled Mbah’s entrepreneurial exploits in the private sector, saying he would do well with support of the people.