The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) has destroyed 71 illegal refineries and 22 illegal oil bunkering sites in the last 14 months. Commandant General of the Corps, Ahmed Audi said the action was in sustenance of the drive to end oil theft and illegal oil bunkering. According to him, from January to date, the Corps has moved against activities of criminal elements, such as vandals, economic saboteurs and oil thieves with the use of advanced technologies and impounded 134 trucks, 36 boats and other equipment used in perpetrating illegal oil bunkering in the country. He disclosed this yesterday, in Abuja, at  the 2023 celebration of the International Civil Defence Organisation (ICDO), with the theme: “The Role of Information Technologies in Risks Assessment.” The event also doubles as his two years in office and the graduation of its weapon handling, tactics and reformation training programme. Audi said the Corps has maintained a dogged fight against the activities of criminal elements. According to him, the agency has been making steady and remarkable progress in line with the theme of this year’s world civil defence day, noting that since his appointment exactly two years ago,  disaster management, risk assessment, crime detection and prevention, protection of Critical National Assets and Infrastructure (CNAI) like petroleum pipelines, electrical installations, communication equipment, roads, railways and others have relatively improved from what it used to be. Audi said: “Consequently, between January 2022 and to date, over 546 suspects have been arrested, 429 under prosecution, 51 convicted, 71 illegal refineries destroyed, 22 illegal oil bunkering sites destroyed, 134 trucks impounded, 36 boats and other equipment used in perpetrating illegal oil bunkering confiscated. “Prior to this time, disaster management, risk assessment, crime detection and prevention, protection of Critical National Assets and Infrastructure (CNAI) like Petroleum Pipelines, Electrical Installations, Communication Equipment, Roads, Railways and others were relatively difficult but today, there is significant improvement. “We are determined to make the Corps a world-class organisation, that is why we are not relenting, but working hard to key into the global space and tapping from the experience of other members of the ICDO.” 