Federal Government and Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM) have lauded United Kingdom-based IA-Foundation for its contribution to the nation’s education sector.   The commendation comes ahead of the body’s fourth yearly Black-Tie charity event holding on March 18 in United Kingdom, with the theme, ‘Securing the Future.’ The praise was contained in goodwill messages signed by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and Chairperson of NiDCOM, Abike Dabiri-Erewa. The Vice President commended the foundation for its effort in reducing the percentage of girls, who are unable to access education due to poverty, insecurity or poor orientation. He said: “Given the number of girls, who remain out-of-school in our country, and may never have the opportunity of formal education, girl-child education is an all-important assignment. I wholeheartedly commend the commitment and dedication that you have deployed to the task so far.” Dabiri-Erewa, on her part, praised the foundation for its consistency over the last four years in ensuring children, who are out-of-school, are able to access quality education regardless of backgrounds. “For an organisation that has over 95 per cent of its leadership based in the United Kingdom to have executed projects across nine states in Nigeria and helped about 100 children back to school, is highly commendable,” she said. Government needs the support and partnership of the Diaspora communities, and I am happy that IA-Foundation is complementing efforts of government in the education sector to combat the issue of out-of-school children,” she said. The NiDCOM boss appealed to Nigerians at home and abroad to emulate the foundation and be part of the country’s transformation.  The IA-Foundation Charity Ball is a yearly event to intimate well-meaning individuals and corporate organisations of the education deficit and mobilise resources to provide quality education for out-of-school children in Nigeria. Generated funds are channelled towards support for pupils and families, especially the girl child, persons with disabilities and orphans.   Dignitaries that have confirmed participation include the Nigeria’s High Commissioner to the United Kingdom, Amb. Sarafa Ishola; former CBN Governor and 14th Emir of Kano, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi and Chairman of Nigeria-British Business Forum, Prince Afolabi Andu. 