Henkel Nigeria has appointed a prominent business leader, Guy Murray-Bruce, as well as an acclaimed economist, Bismark Rewane into its advisory council. The appointments are coming in the wake of the company announcing the set-up of its inaugural advisory council. Henkel has and continues to aim at being a strong contributor to the Nigerian economy, with the ultimate ambition to produce for Nigerians by Nigerians. The company strives to be at the forefront of supporting government, industry and various communities, and believes that the implementation of this advisory council marks a significant milestone for the company in achieving these goals. According to a statement by the Chairman and Managing Director of Henkel Nigeria, Rajat Kapur, both advisors have strong business acumen and are well known in Nigeria for their respective areas of expertise. Murray-Bruce is a passionate leader with first class communication skills, and a long track record of successful management. He is educated to a very high level in business administration, with an extensive knowledge of all current economic, social and regulatory issues in the media, communications and entertainment sector. A few of his notable positions include President of Silverbird Group; Chairman of the Board Independent Broadcasting Association of Nigeria; National Director, Miss Supranational and Special Adviser Entertainment and Tourism, Bayelsa State. Rewane is Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Financial Derivatives Company. He has more than 30 years of experience as an economist, banker, and financial analyst. He is a chartered member of the Institute of Bankers of England and Wales and a Fellow of the Nigerian Institute of Bankers. He was appointed Chairman of PTAC (Presidential Technical Advisory Committee) on the National Minimum Wage review in 2019. Kapur said: “I am delighted to have such professionally distinguished Nigerians on our advisory council. We are confident that we will be able to leverage off both Bismarck Rewane and Guy Murray-Bruce’s expertise to make a bigger and more sustainable impact here in Nigeria.” Reacting to his appointment, Murray-Bruce said: “I am honored to join the Advisory Council of Henkel, a responsible company that I hold in high regard. Their support for youth development and the entertainment sector, which I am also a part of, makes this partnership particularly meaningful to me.” On his part, Rewane said: “I have taken my time to look at the Henkel brand. Its global operations and standards are qualities no analytical mind can ignore. I am therefore glad to be associated with such a brand and its positive impact on the industry and society in Nigeria.” 