Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State and the presidential candidate of New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) in the state, Rabiu Kwankwaso, have reacted to the rising political tension brewing ahead of gubernatorial election in Kano State and sued for peace. At separate meetings with Kano Peace Committee, the two politicians expressed divergent reservations on the escalating political violence in the state and the role played by various stakeholders in the build up to violence-free election. According to Ganduje, to attain violence-free election, critical stakeholder including the security and Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) must remain neutral and just to all parties involved, even as Kwankwaso said peace cannot be attained in the absence of justice and fairness. Addressing the members of the State Peace Committee, Ganduje said that government would only provide a conducive atmosphere of peace ahead of the election, while the security operatives would do theirs. He said, “No doubt it’s the season of election; if the situation is not properly manage, the season could lead to violence. We have managed to ensure discipline in our party. We can only enjoin the opposition parties to do the same. “The issue of peace during election must involve all variables including parties and security personnel, who are primarily entrusted with the management of peace and security of the people. But failure to ensure neutrality may end up triggering violence. “INEC must also do their bid. For us, we are conscious of free and credible election but it is left for the security to remain vigilant and non-partisan during the poll. On his part, Kwankwaso lamented that Nigeria was operating a failed system that could hardly guaranteed fairness and justice, while wondering how peace could be achieved in an unjust environment. Kwankwaso stressed that there was limit to which members of NNPP could endure persecution and injustice system being faced in the hands of the ruling party. The two-term governor of Kano State warned that NNPP would go any length to defend its mandate. “We are frustrated by the failed system. We were robbed of our mandate when the 2019 election was manipulated. We maintained peace. But for how long are we going to remain peaceful in the face of injustice? “People are being killed, the person responsible was arrested and released after few days. Where is justice? We are ready to defend ourselves this time. We would not watch them steal our mandate and remain peaceful this time,” Kwankwaso said. Former president of Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), AB Mahmoud SAN, said rising political tension ahead of the election worried the Committee. The senior lawyer appealed to the political elites to eschew violence for peaceful atmosphere in the rescheduled elections. Similarly, Alhaji Aliyu Danazumi said despite pockets of violence here and there, Kano recorded peaceful atmosphere during last presidential and National Assembly elections. He urged the security agencies and INEC to ensure credible process. 