As group appeals to voters to support Oborevwori Delta State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), yesterday, vowed to checkmate Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) officials to prevent the rigging that allegedly marred presidential election. Delta PDP Campaign Council spokesperson, Fred Latimore Oghenesivbe, who spoke with The Guardian in Asaba, yesterday, said PDP was still disturbed by the results of presidential elections declared by INEC. He said: “Now, we want to see INEC conducting a fair, credible and free elections, come Saturday. “Nobody has confidence in INEC anymore. We would have boycotted the elections, but we will checkmate INEC and its officials from polling units to where results will be announced, and we will make sure results are uploaded instantly at each unit to server, and must be seen by our agents that it has been done.” On Delta PDP United group that recently endorsed APC governorship candidate, Omo Agege, he described members of the group as inconsequential, saying no matter the gang-up, Oborevwori will emerge victorious. MEANWHILE, a socio-politcal group, Obidiently Sheriffied, yesterday, endorsed Oborevwori for the March 11 election. The group, which has its support base across the 25 councils of the state, has vowed to deliver the PDP and all its candidates during the election. Speaking to newsmen at a press conference, Chairman of the group, Mr. Celestine Umeri, appealed to political leaders and Deltans to rally round Oborevwori to ensure his emergence as the next governor. Umeri said Oborevwori would foster unity and ensure development of the state across the three senatorial districts, comprising Delta South, Central and North, and redeem his campaign promises to revitalise the state through people-oriented policies and programmes. He, also, urged them to vote for all PDP candidates for the state House of Assembly in various constituencies across the state.  Umeri said their support for Oborevwori in the March 11 poll would ensure continuity and consolidate on achievements of the state governor, Ifeanyi Okowa.