SIR: Politics, as coined from the Greek word ‘politika’, refers to the affairs of the city-state (polis). Politicians are, therefore, those who seek to influence and direct the affairs of a nation. Participation in politics can thus be hinged on political orientation, which, according to Gabriel Almond and Sydney Verba, can be viewed from three major perspectives, parochial, subjective, and affective. The parochial group are those remotely aware, but unaffected by governance. Those who are aware and affected, but remain indifferent about governance are called the subjective. While those who are aware, affected and involved in governance are known as the affective. Subsequently, politics is either a service to ‘self’ or the ‘collective.’ When it emphasises self, it is hinged on ‘survival’ and the exploitation of others for personal gains, as enthused by scholars such as Harold Lasswell – who gets what, when and how. In this case, the society regresses towards the Hobbesian state of nature where anything went, a banana republic: an appellation used by many to describe the Nigerian nation. A critical look at the above makes one wonder, if the proponents of such demeaning name can be adjudged wrong in a country where the political actors employ all measures, including the instruments of force to trade the security and well-being of the generality of people for personal aggrandizement. Where the forth estate (the media), both public and private, are used to either propagate news and speech for or against the government. Can they be so faulted in a society ridden with broad-day bribery and corruption, with the monetization of everything including votes, and even, human life and freedom is now a function of ransom. The sorry state of the global economy does not help either, a survival race, which has turned many Nigerians to enemies of state in the poverty capital of the world. However, there is more to politics when the focus is on ‘we’ and not ‘I’. It is pure public service, which underscores the real essence of life – which is, living for others. In this regard, politicians subserviently pursue the well-being and development of the society. It is, therefore, not all doom for Nigeria, as there are individuals who have distinguished themselves in both public and private spheres. Dr Akinwumi Adesina, President of African Development Bank who was a minister and the Late Obafemi Awolowo, Bola Ige and Lateef Jakande alongside the likes of Tony Elumelu and Alhaji Aliko Dangote are rare shinning lights and rays of hope for the country.
Tunde Eso a political scientist, originator of Youthocracy a new system of government and president Fix Nigeria Group.