The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Ogun State, Niyi Ijalaye, has dispelled the propaganda that the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Ladi Adebutu, has been delisted from the commission’s list of candidates contesting the Saturday, March 18 gubernatorial election.
  
Reports that the PDP has no governorship candidate in the forthcoming March 18 election in Ogun, surfaced on social media platforms during the week.
 
Ijalaye dispelled the rumour, describing it as unfounded. “It is a rumour that is not founded. Adebutu remained the governorship candidate of the PDP in Ogun State, the electorate should disregard the news.” He said that Adebutu would be participating in the election as the authentic governorship candidate of the PDP.
 
Also reacting to the issue, the Media Director of Ladi Adebutu Campaign Organisation, Afolabi Orekoya, alleged that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), is behind the propaganda with the aim to confuse the electorates. He said: “It is clear to Governor Dapo Abiodun and his party that they will be voted out of power, hence, propagation of fake news.”
 
Orekoya explained further that Adebutu remains the PDP’s candidate recognized by INEC after winning over 30 court cases and eight different cases at the Supreme Court.
 
MEANWHILE, the fate of Governor Seyi Makinde remained uncertain in Oyo State ahead of next Saturday’s gubernatorial polls, as some major political stakeholders in Ibadan seem to have made up their minds not to support his second-term aspiration.
 
As of yesterday, sources disclosed to The Guardian that major stakeholders met in Ibadan to perfect discussions on how to oust the incumbent governor.
 
In another development, the Southwest leader of the New Nigerian People’s Party (NNPP), Alhaji Bisi Olopoeyan, boasted that Makinde stands no chance of returning as governor of Oyo State after next Saturday.
 
Olopoeyan’s position is coming after several members of Oyo PDP members in Ibarapa East Local Council, dumped the ruling party for NNPP.
 
Leader of the defectors, Ismael Musbaudeen, while speaking at New Eruwa Town Hall, Ibarapa, said that the PDP members decided to move to NNPP because it is the best alternative party for the masses.
 
He lambasted Makinde for inconsistency while he said Olopoeyan’s leadership qualities attracted them to NNPP. 