Defence Headquarters has confirmed foiling of oil theft worth N173,985,650 in Niger Delta by vigilant troops in the past two weeks. Director of Defence Media Operations  (DMO), Maj.-Gen. Musa Danmadami, who made the disclosure yesterday during the bi-weekly briefing in Abuja, added 71 criminals were arrested. He said personnel of Operation Delta Safe, currently conducting Operation Octopus Grip and others in the South South zone, made the arrest after destroying 74 illegal refining sites. They, according to him, also smashed 341 storage tanks, 31 wooden boats, 260 ovens and 15 dugout pits Danmadami listed other items discovered to include 209,000 litres of crude oil, 145,000 litres of Automotive Gas Oil, 4,500 litres of Premium Motor Spirit, 27 various weapons, 468 assorted ammunition, two speedboats, two outboard engines, eight vehicles and four motorcycles. He said all recovered items and apprehended suspects have been handed over to appropriate authorities for further action. The spokesman said troops of Operation Safe Haven and Whirl Stroke in the North Central zone also sustained an offensive against terrorists and other criminal elements in their general areas of operation. Operational activities were conducted at different locations and in villages within Bassa and Barkin Ladi Councils of Plateau State. Operations were also conducted at Guma and Katsina-Ala Councils of Benue State,” he said. According to him, on February 26, following credible information, troops of Operation Safe Haven arrested five suspected rustlers and recovered 35 cattle at Lobirin village in Barkin-Ladi Council of Plateau State. He continued: “On the same day, troops of Operation Whirl Stroke conducted a raid in Utange village, Katsina-Council of Benue State. During the operation, troops neutralised two bandits and recovered one AK47 rifle, eight rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition and a mobile phone, among other sundry items. “In the same vein, troops conducted fighting within Zaki-Biam town in Katsina-Ala Council of Benue State and arrested seven terrorists. Preliminary investigation revealed that the suspects have been involved in criminal activities within the Council. “Troops also recovered one AK47 rifle, 19 locally-made pistols, one Dane gun, two machetes and four mobile phones from the terrorists.” He said troops, on patrol at Okehi town in Okenne Council Kogi State, on February 25, arrested eight political thugs attempting to disrupt elections. They recovered the pump action guns, two locally fabricated AK 47 rifles, six locally-made assorted guns and two daggers in the process. Danmadami stated: “On March 4, 2023, troops responded to an attack on Angwan Lilu in Royom Council of Plateau State and made contact with criminals. During a firefight, the criminals fled. “Troops recovered oneAK47 rifle, two Dane guns, 17 empty cases of 7.62mm ammunition, 155 rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition, three machetes, two mobile phones and two motorcycles.” 