All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain in Nasarawa State, Obiya Yahaya-Doma, has called on the residents to vote for the gubernatorial candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), David Ombugadu. The APC stalwart from Doma Local Council of the state made the call at a press briefing, yesterday, in Lafia. According to him, the call became imperative because of the competency and blueprint of the PDP candidate to move the state on the part of development. He explained that Ombugadu has proven records of achievements as a two-term House of Representatives member for Akwanga/Nassarawa-Eggon/Wamba Constituency from 2011 to 2019. He added that Ombugadu, while in the National Assembly, facilitated employment for many youths, attracted projects, including healthcare centres, schools and electricity to his constituency. His words: “He also provided boreholes to all the electoral wards in the state. Even those outside his constituency also benefited from his representation. If someone can do this much as House of Representatives member, just imagine what he will do when elected as governor.” Yahaya-Doma pointed that it is high time the youth were given the opportunity to lead the state through the PDP candidate, who is in his early 40s. When asked if it is allowed for someone in APC to support a candidate of another party, Yahaya-Doma noted that President Muhammadu Buhari had publicly declared that Nigerians should support any candidate of their choice based on competency. “We are in APC, but we will vote PDP governorship candidate in Nasarawa on grounds of competency and performance. This is the trend in this year’s elections. Many APC members across the state have decided to support candidates with track records, irrespective of party or religion. “I am not doing anything wrong because Buhari, who is the leader of our party, openly declared that people should vote for any candidate of their choice,” he said. APC administration in the state, he added, has failed the people and performed below expectation. He, therefore, appealed to Nasarawa residents to shun religious and ethnic politics for the overall development of the state. 