ABCD Africa is proud to announce the release of the 50 Most Impactful Voices List to mark 2023 International Women’s Day. This list recognizes African female coaches, content creators, and community builders who leverage their voices and digital content as tools for impact. Women all over Africa have made significant strides in breaking barriers and challenging norms. Despite this progress, women still face numerous challenges that hinder their voices from being heard as much as they should be. The ABCD Africa 50 Most Impactful Voices List features Thought leaders, change-makers and bold storytellers who have engaged their audiences, and inspired others with their unique stories, perspectives, and skills across various digital platforms, including Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, LinkedIn, TikTok, Netflix, Podcasts and Blogs. “We are thrilled to unveil the 50 Most Impactful Voices in Africa and amplify their contribution. We hope that this list inspires other women to use their voices, create impactful content, and shape conversations that contribute to the development of a more equitable society,’’ says Joké Pearl Oyebamiji, Founder of  ABCD Africa The selection process was rigorous and thorough, with nominations received from digital experts and the general public. The finalists were evaluated based on their creativity, impact, authenticity, and engagement. Here they are: Polymath, Founder, AD Consulting Olajumoke Adenowo is an award-winning Architect, Academic Laureate, Philanthropist, Entrepreneur, Arbitrator, Author and Radio Show Host. She is the founder of AD Consulting, a leading Nigerian-based architecture and design firm. A renowned passion-driven polymath with several media of expressions – she shares insightful content via her books, global publications, social media platforms, radio show, and global events. In 2020, Jumoke was awarded the Forbes woman African Entrepreneur of the Year Award. Follow her here  CLICK Marketing Executive, Change Catalyst Bodam Taiwo is a Change Catalyst and a Master Manifestor for women. Through her coaching programs, book (titled Be-You-Ti-Ful), masterclasses and YouTube Series – The Refined Lady’s Conversations, she helps women get unstuck by inspiring and organizing them to dream bigger, see clearer and live brighter so they can create the life they really desire. She is a Seasoned Business Leader and Marketing Executive with 15+ years of cross-functional experience. Follow her here  CLICK Marriage Coach Married for thirty-four years, Modupe Ehirim is passionate about helping people get marriage right. She has worked as a Marriage Educator since 2014. She talks about marriage, Building Understanding among couples, Building Communication Skills, Building through Conflict, and Building a Covenant Relationship. Ehirim is the current National President of the Association SYMBIS (Save Your Marriage Before It Starts) Follow her here  CLICK 4.Tricia Olufemi-Olumide (TriciaBiz) Marketing & Sales Strategist Tricia equips entrepreneurs and experts with marketing strategies, funnels, growth strategies and systems to scale their revenue significantly to 9 figures and beyond. Through her social media platforms, newsletters, and YouTube Series – ‘How They Did It’, she is fueling the entrepreneurship ecosystem in Africa and beyond. In 2020, she was recognized as one of The Top 10 Marketing Coaches To Follow by Yahoo. Follow her here  CLICK Global CEO/VC of Fine & Country WA Udo Maryanne Okonjo is the Global CEO/VC of Fine & Country West Africa, an official member of the Forbes Business Council, a sought after global transformative speaker and possibilities igniter. A prolific writer, she has authored several books, and regularly shares content around female leadership development, financial freedom for women, real estate, entrepreneurship, business development, and wealth mastery. Follow her here  CLICK Founder, Women In Portharcourt Wenenda Ndu-Ajikeru is the Founder of WomeninPortharcourt, the largest Online Business Community in South-South Nigeria, creating visibility for growing businesses, and connecting entrepreneurs with potential customers via social media. Through corporate partnerships, business  masterclasses and events, she provides learning, networking and business growth opportunities for her audience. Follow her here  CLICK Founder of Health Cap Africa She is a Director at Flying Doctors Nigeria, and Founder of Health Cap Africa, an Africa-focused investment firm. An international speaker, she has spoken at the TED global conference, the UN, the World Bank, the World Economic Forum, the World Health Organisation, amongst several others. Dr. Ola and her work have been featured by CNN, the BBC, Forbes and Al-Jazeera. Her prolific tweets on Business, Innovation and Tech have garnered a following of over 209,000 on Twitter. Follow her here  CLICK Founder, MomentsWithBren Brenda Okorogba is a multi-award-winning learning experience designer, STEMScholar lead and grant coordinator with the STEMHub Foundation. She also manages Momentswithbren Scholarship Series and Skills Training. An advocate for closing the opportunity gap, her focus is on matching students with scholarships, freelance jobs, e-learning and mentorship opportunities. She has helped students gain more than $2.2 million in scholarships in Canada, Africa and across the world. Her insightful tweets have garnered a 177,000+ following on Twitter. Follow her here  CLICK  9.Temitope Olagbegi Life Coach, Entrepreneur Temitope Olagbegi is a Life Coach passionate at helping women find purpose. A multipotentialite, she shares her unique stories and perspective to help her audience rediscover their true authentic selves,fulfill purpose, and balance life on different levels. She is a recipient of over 50 awards and recognitions for business and enterprise development in Nigeria, including the Bank of Industry Recognition Award in 2015 amongst numerous others. Follow her here  CLICK Founder, Treasure Fitness Roseanne is the Founder and Managing Director of Treasure Fitness, a weight loss and healthy lifestyle service firm. A Kenya-based ardent advocate for healthy living, she shares content around holistic approaches to help women live sustainably wholesome lives. Roseanne and her work have been featured on National and global media such as BBC. Follow her here  CLICK Impactonaire, DMD, Falcon Corporation Audrey Joe-Ezigbo is a multiple award-winning Impactonaire, business leader, life and business transformation coach, speaker, and author. Her digital content helps people discover their life’s purpose, build sustainable businesses, and unleash the most profitable expressions of themselves in all areas of life. She is the Co-Founder of Falcon Corporation Limited, an industry-leading company in the middle and downstream Energy, Natural Gas distribution sector in Africa. She was recognised among the 100 Outstanding Female Executives in the African Oil & gas Industry in 2021. Follow her here  CLICK Founder, HerNetwork Nkem Onwudiwe is a Public Relations professional, Marketing Consultant and founder of Her Network – a global inspiration and lifestyle platform for women. Through Her Network, she has impacted over 50 thousand women through the network’s impact events and experiences, including the annual Her Network Woman of the Year Award Ceremony. She was previously the Head of Marketing and Corporate Communications at the Tony Elumelu Foundation. Follow her here  CLICK Cybersecurity Leader Confidence Staveley is a Cybersecurity Awareness Evangelist and Inclusion Advocate. Her superpower is a deep understanding of cyber security fused with great communication skills; enabling her to communicate cyber security best practices in a relatable and engaging way with no jargon, to audiences of all types. Little wonder she has been nicknamed “The Relatable CyberSecurity Leader” She was listed among the 45 Most Influential Women in Digital Transformation 2021-2022. She was also Featured on the 40 under 40 in cybersecurity List in 2023 Follow her here  CLICK Certified Culinary Expert Popularly known as Diaryofakitchenlover, Tolani is a Nigerian Food Blogger/Recipe developer, Food tutor, and entrepreneur. Tolani shares amazing food pictures and curates detailed recipes from regular home ingredients to the delight of her over 1 million followers. Follow her here  CLICK Marketplace Apostle, Entrepreneur Through her several expressions across her books, courses, events, business and speaking engagements, Funto Ibuoye is propelling and equipping individuals to launch a higher version of their purposes and businesses. She was listed among the Ynaija & Leading Ladies Africa 100 most inspiring women in Nigeria in 2017, Mogulettes Africa 100 Most Inspiring Moguls in 2020 and 100 Most Impactful Women in 2022 by The Richer Woman Inc. Follow her here  CLICK Executive Director, IREDE Foundation She is a Nigerian social entrepreneur and a development consultant. She founded IREDE Foundation, which provides prosthetics and other walking aids to children 18 and under. Through her foundation, Crystal has provided over 120 prosthetic limbs to over 82 children across 17 states in Nigeria. She leverages her social media platforms, book and speaking engagements to advocate for Child Amputees and NGO Corporate Governance. Follow her here  CLICK Founder, CoolHouse Ife Olarinde is a serial entrepreneur, doctoral researcher, and graduate of the Imperial College London. She is the founder of Cool House, the largest African/Black community on Clubhouse with over 70,000 members. She shapes conversations around topics that impact people of African descent. Her key areas of interest are Human Capital Development, Entrepreneurship, Politics, Health Care Systems, Poverty Alleviation and Wealth creation. Follow her here  CLICK Regional VP, Southern and East Africa, MTN Yolanda Cuba is the Regional VP, Southern and East Africa, MTN She was once the youngest CEO of a company listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange,and has been blazing a trail through corporate South Africa since she was in her mid-20s. With years of experience as a business leader, Cuba shares tips and lessons on leadership and entrepreneurship, as well as insights into Africa’s business landscape. Follow her here  CLICK Video Creator She is a Digital Strategist and the founder of MissTechy, a tech oriented blog that has gained prominence due to her innovative VFX Videos. She talks about tech and technological gadgets on her social media platforms and has grown her following to over 130,000. Follow her here  CLICK Founder, Lagos Mums Yetty Williams is a Digital Media Marketing Consultant passionate about helping businesses, particularly women owned enterprises, leverage technology to thrive and scale up. She is also the founder of Nigeria’s premier and first parenting blog, Lagos Mums which convenes annual parenting conferences bringing together thousands of parents, experts and vendors and holds a community of nearly 55 thousand people. In 2020, she was listed on the YNaija Top Media 100; recognized for curating culture and driving conversations. Follow her here  CLICK Founder, Port Harcourt In Pictures Tonye Briggs is the current curator of Portharcourt Global Shapers Hub, an initiative of the World Economic Forum. Passionate about Human capacity development, she curates insightful content via her social media blog @portharcourtinpictures which has garnered an audience of over 70,000 on Instagram. Follow her here  CLICK Head of Digital Media and Partnerships, Forbes Africa Peace Hyde is the head of digital media and partnerships as well as the West African correspondent at Forbes Africa. Passionate about shaping the African narrative, she co-created Netflix’s first African reality series in 2022, which won the Best Reality TV Show at the African Entertainment Awards USA. Through her content, Hyde aims to inspire younger Africans to own their stories. She shares her personal journey, unique perspective, and ‘random dumps’ that we find ever so inspiring. Follow her here  CLICK Disability Activist Sinikiwe Kademaunga is a disability activist and a member of the African Women Leaders Network, Zimbabwe Chapter. Through her social media platforms, she advocates for the rights of people with disabilities, especially women. As an advocate for gender equality in Zimbabwe, she believes that as women, it is time to rise, and to create the generation that we’ve always wished for. Follow her here  CLICK Transformational Coach She is a best-selling author, keynote speaker, ministry gift, public policy advisor and transformational coach for visionary leaders. Through her coaching, consulting, capacity building, and digital content, Debola deploys her extraordinary gift of unlocking potential in people, institutions and nations. She is the Founder of IMMERSE Coaching Company (a professional coaching practice), Executive Director at Ideation Hub Africa (a public policy and impact advisory firm) and President at Kingdom Leaders Global Alliance (a non-denominational Christian Ministry). Follow her here  CLICK Skincare Coach, Entrepreneur Malama Maryam Wahida Ahmed is a multi-faceted educator at the Federal College of Nigeria, Kano. She is also a safe skincare evangelist, championing ‘stop-bleaching’ campaigns on social media, and offering insightful skincare advice to African women. Follow her here  CLICK Lifestyle Content Creator She creates wholesome lifestyle content around her Christian faith, Marriage and Motherhood. From inception, her social media platforms have been more than numbers but a way to share the big and little moments of her dynamic life. Her YouTube channel and Instagram profile have a combined following of over 250,000. Follow her here  CLICK Human Rights Advocate Rinu Oduala is a Human Rights advocate, Influencer and community organizer focused primarily on issues of equity, justice, humanity and community advancement. Leveraging social media, she advocates against police brutality in Nigeria and beyond. Rinu has become a key player in the work to confront the systems and structures that have led to mass incarceration and police killings of Nigerians. She has been nominated for CAHR Aminu Kano award for Leadership, 2020, and one of NBCWashington 31 Women creating a positive impact in Africa. Follow her here  CLICK 28.Kobe Campbell Trauma Therapist Kobe Campbell is an award-winning licensed trauma therapist, author, media expert, and speaker. Kobe shares content around healing from trauma on TikTok and Instagram, where she has garnered a combined following of over 150,000. She is currently preparing to release her first book titled Why Am I Like This?: How to Break Cycles, Heal From Trauma, and Restore Your Faith. She is Named one of Charlotte’s Most Influential Women by Charlotte Lately Magazine and awarded as the Rising Star Under 30 by WILMA magazine. Follow her here  CLICK 29.Blessing Abeng Branding & Communications Expert Blessing Abeng is the Co-founder and Director of Communications at Ingressive for Good, a non-profit organization through which actively connects African youths to tech training, scholarships and resources for the growth of the African startup ecosystem. She regularly shares content on her social media platforms and email newsletter around branding, communications and tech. In 2022, she was recognized as one of the United Nation’s 100 under 40 most influential People of African Descent. Follow her here  CLICK ESL Instructor Bolaji Bolu David is a professional editor, ESL Instructor, and Founder of Eliz Pro. She is passionate about helping people gain correctness, precision and confidence with the English Language and regularly shares pronunciation lessons on her Instagram profile which has garnered over 71,000 followers. Follow her here  CLICK Founder, Money Africa Tosin Olaseinde is the founder of three leading African tech financial brands – Money Africa (a personal finance & investment literacy edtech platform), Ladda.ng (an investment fintech platform) and Money Africakids (a finance and investment literacy platform for kids and teenagers). Through her social media platforms and podcast, she shares lessons on financial literacy and connects her audience to investment opportunities Tosin was named a LinkedIn Top Voice, Finance & Economy in 2020 and is also a member of The Mandela Washington Fellowship. Follow her here  CLICK LinkedIn Visibility Expert Glory Edozien is passionate about helping African female executives build visibility and gain global recognition using LinkedIn & Personal Branding. A LinkedIn 2022 Top Voice, she shares thought leadership content on LinkedIn and Instagram to enable her audience to become visible. Glory Edozien is a Forbes Coaches Council Member. Follow her here  CLICK COO, Sendstack Once the face of Vogue online, Ifeoma Nwobu is now the Co-founder and Chief Operating Officer of Sendstack, a mobility tech startup in Lagos, Nigeria focused on achieving next-day delivery infrastructure for African businesses. Through her social media platforms, she shares her thoughts around entrepreneurship, building a tech startup, and living purposefully. Follow her here  CLICK Co-Founder, Nutrition4Kids Ifeyinwa Omesiete is a pediatric nutritionist and co-founder of Nutrition4Kids – where she is helping to provide effective feeding techniques and assisting parents with curial information for proper child development. In 2019, she co-founded the first pediatric Nutrition Challenge in Nigeria. This quarterly online programme provides materials in different learning styles to reorient the minds of parents on the importance of feeding children healthy homemade meals. Through her website, burgeoning telegram community, and Instagram page, she shares valuable content that provide nutritional support, education and advocacy. Follow her here  CLICK Coach, Author Foluso Gbadamosi is a global speaker, author, and trainer who is vocal about helping people unleash their superpowers and gain mastery of their talents towards achieving maximum growth in all areas of life A Gallups Certified Strength Coach, she regularly shares insightful content that helps individuals and organizations live out their purpose. She is on the Board of Directors of Swift Networks, Croissant Technologies, and Intense NG. Follow her here  CLICK Founder, Lumination Global Adaora Mbelu is the founder of Lumination Global – an Afrocentric transformational learning organization, and the co-founder of Socially Africa – focused on teaching people to Be Good, Do Good and Inspire Good. A multipotentialite, she leverages her Book (This Thing Called Purpose), Music, Podcast, Social media platforms, Newsletters, and social enterprises to shift mindsets and transform lives. Adaora was named one of the 100 Most Influential People of African Descent in 2020. Follow her here  CLICK Activist Aisha Yesufu is a political and social activist, influencer educator, public speaker and advocate of African women’s rights. Using social media and physical means of protest, she has played key roles in social -political movements such as the #BringBackOurGirlsCampaign, which served to draw attention and action to the kidnapped schoolgirls in Chibok, Borno, Nigeria in 2013. She is a recipient of the Martin Luther King Award and was named on the BBC top 100 Women List of 2020. Follow her here  CLICK CEO, Shredder Gang Bunmi George is the Founder, and CEO of Shredder Gang – a health and wellness consultancy where she has helped over 70,000 women achieve their body goals through the right nutrition plan. An avid storyteller, she inspires and educates her 120,000 + followers on Instagram with her unique faith-based perspectives and experiences. Bunmi is a brand ambassador for Carex Soap. Follow her here  CLICK Social Media Coach Bolaji ‘Billions”Ajibare is a social media coach and content creator with experience in public relations, digital marketing and communications. Bolaji has trained over 240 students to start careers in social media management and curates one of the largest social media managers communities in Nigeria. A seasoned content creator, she creates explainer videos to improve the content creation skills of her over 60,000 followers on Instagram. Follow her here  CLICK Style Expert Olere Odior is a leading style expert and personal stylist who is focused on helping African women differentiate and showcase their value by creating an authentic personal style. Leveraging her social media platforms, she helps African women find their confidence, rediscover their style and build executive presence. She has built a community on Instagram and TikTok with a combined following of over 35,000. Follow her here  CLICK Leadership Expert Niven Postma is a South African leadership, personal career growth and business politics expert with an audience of over 19,000 on LinkedIn. She helps her clients build beneficial business networks, foster leadership, navigate the murky waters of office politics, drive leadership change across organizations and build sustainable work culture. Niven is an author and visiting lecturer at Henley Business School; contributes to Harvard Business Review and Inc. Africa, and is currently pursuing her PhD. Follow her here  CLICK Founder, DANG! Ifedayo Agoro is an avid community builder, creative storyteller and founder of Diary Of a Naija Girl – a vibrant community of over 630,000 women where she shapes conversations around topics that impact women professionally and personally. She is also the founder and CEO of Dang Lifestyle, a premium Skincare, Home and Body Fragrance and Gifts brand. Follow her here  CLICK Co-host, ISWIS Podcast Jola Ayeye is a creative writer, storyteller and strategist with an unwavering interest in contemporary African culture and its global representation. She is the co-host of the famous pop culture podcast  “I Said What I Said” (Number one podcast on Apple podcast, 2022). She is also a co-host on “Cash Madam Collective”, a work, money and leadership women-centric podcast. Jola is currently the Head of Development at Salt & Truth, a Nigerian and African entertainment provider focusing on indigenous story content for film, television, and global features Follow her here  CLICK Senior Editor, Africa, CNN Stephanie Busari is a multi-award winning journalist,  notable for exclusively obtaining the “proof of life” video for the missing Chibok schoolgirls in the wake of the Bring Back Our Girls advocacy which led to negotiations with Boko Haram that resulted in the release of over 100 of the kidnapped schoolgirls. She is the pioneer and head of CNN’s first digital and multi-platform bureau in Nigeria. In May 2020, she was listed among 25 of the most powerful female journalists in Africa by Women in Journalism Africa. Follow her here  CLICK Entrepreneur, TV Host Anita M.V. Erskin is a TV Host and Producer, Event Moderator, Actress, Keynote Speaker, and Entrepreneur. Anita employs storytelling to showcase African cultures, traditional and social pillars that hold up our communities and how tech Innovation, entrepreneurship and education are creating African solutions for African problems. Anita Erskine’s Sheroes show garners over 15 million global viewers. She has been named among the top 500 most influential Africans around the world, and one of the top 100 Women CEO’s in Africa. Follow her here  CLICK Founder, Every Na Art Amin Ameen is the founder of Every Na Art and a Monetization Product Professional who pivoted from Engineering & Projects. Driven by her passion for teaching, she shares knowledge that produces access (from a social-economic standpoint); especially to those who are underserved via her social media platforms. In 2022, she launched the #LinkedUp Series which connected thousands of young professionals to  practical tips on how to navigate Tech Interviews. Through her digital content, she continues to connect young people to global opportunities. Follow her here  CLICK Brand & Content Strategist Folashade Daini is a brand & content strategist. She shares wholesome relatable content around navigating life, family, and faith on her YouTube and Instagram channels where she has garnered a combined audience of over 100,000 followers. Follow her here  CLICK Founding Partner and the CEO, Nimed Capital Limited Abena B. Brigidi is a Founding Partner and the Chief Executive Officer of Nimed Capital Limited; a leading investment banking firm in Accra. Through her blog and social media platforms, she shares insightful content on investing and finance. Follow her here  CLICK Group CEO, Breakthrough Leadership Transformation Group Patricia Murugami is the Group CEO of Breakthrough Leadership Transformation Group – a leadership growth advisory solution group. An award winning global leadership coach- she inspires her audience to evolve into their next best selves through her academy, books, podcasts, and other digital content. She is an accredited certified executive coach with The Performance Solution UK. Follow her here  CLICK Entrepreneur, Founder, NHN War Room Dr Nkechi Harry Ngonadi is a multi-award winning entrepreneur. In 2018, she was recognized as the Designer of the Year award at the Runway Dubai Fashion show. An ardent community builder, she established the NHN War room, a faith-based global community of women, and continues to touch lives across her social media platforms which has a combined following of over 430,000. Follow her here  CLICK