The President of Avila Naturalle, Mrs. Temitope Mayegun, has cautioned Nigerians against the use of bleaching cosmetic products, as it is hazardous to health. She said skin bleaching could cause redness, ulcers, cancer, blisters, swellings, and itching, among others.She raised the alarm in Lagos, when Avila Naturalle, a skincare manufacturing company, won two different awards: Most Trusted and Innovative Natural Skincare Brand of the Year 2022’ and ‘Business Creativity, Innovation, and Quality Service Delivery. Mayogun said the awards were in recognition of the company’s commitment to enriching lives through innovative natural skincare brands and service delivery to its customers. She commended the organisers for recognising the firm’s efforts in building a better society through healthy, safe and natural skincare brands. She said: “At Avila Naturalle, we have always strived to create a brand that embodies trust, quality, and innovation. These awards are a form of recognition of our efforts and commitment to enriching lives and an evidence that we are taking steps in the right direction.”Mayegun promised that the company would continue to work hard to maintain the high standards that these awards represent and to provide our customers with the best possible skincare products and services. The Chairman of the organising team, Mr. Emeka Ejengaiheri, said the company’s brand delivery and versatility is highly commendable, leading improvement in the administrative procedures to achieve success and growth in the natural beauty and skincare industry with ease and creativity. Ejengaiheri noted that Avila Naturalle received the awards following the brand’s distinguished reputation in service, authenticity, customer satisfaction, ability to build and sustained the brand over time, and its social impact in Africa and the world at large. Director, Brands and Marketing Avila Naturalle, Mr. Sylvester Iriogbe, said his firm is a leading natural skincare manufacturing company in Nigeria. He noted the company was established in 2017, as redefining the Nigerian skincare industry by promoting the health and wellness of Nigerians through its array of natural skincare products. He said: “Our firm is driven by the need to help Nigerians break free from toxic and harmful chemical-based skincare products by creating a culture and an enabling environment for natural body care solutions to thrive”. 