President-elect will transform Nigeria, says ex-envoy Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has debunked allegations that its governor, Godwin Emefiele, was plotting against the president-elect, Bola Tinubu. According to a report (not in The Guardian) Emefiele resolved to work against Tinubu, because he failed to get the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential ticket and mobilised N500 million to the Labour Party (LP) governorship candidate in Lagos State, Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour, for his campaign. The report also alleged that the money given to Rhodes-Vivour was Emefiele’s contribution for another party to wrest Lagos from Tinubu’s stranglehold. But CBN spokesperson, Isa Abdulmumin, described the allegation as false and malicious, noting that Emefiele had neither met nor spoken with Rhodes-Vivour in person or through proxy. Noting that the CBN governor does not take part in politics, Abdulmumin called on anyone with contrary information to prove the governor wrong to provide facts. He added that the CBN governor and his team should be allowed to focus on their assigned tasks. MEANWHILE, former Nigerian Ambassador to the Republic of Togo, Olusola Iji, has stated that with the emergence of Bola Tinubu as president-elect, the country will attain the desired greatness under his watch. Iji, who is the Coordinator of Asiwaju Tinubu/Shettima Coalition for Good Governance (ATSCGG) in the South West, disclosed that the growth in Lagos during Tinubu’s tenure as governor will be witnessed in Nigeria. Chief Wole Iroaye, in a statement issued on behalf of the ex-envoy, stated that the victory has further rekindled the hope of Nigerians in the country.	 
Iji said: “Tinubu’s victory at the election means so much for the much-expected rapid socio-economic transformation of Nigeria, which is fabulously endowed with human, material and natural resources, more than other nations in Africa and even outside the continent. “Tinubu seems to have been preparing, over the years, for the highly taxing office of President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria with the numerous leadership positions he has held both in the private and public sectors in and outside Nigeria.”	He described Tinubu as an exceptional leader of men with his superlative records of performance as a brilliant professional, a technocrat and pro-democracy activist. Tinubu, according to Iji, stands on solid ground to galvanise the talents and potential that abound in the country into a productive economy that will soon be a model for other African countries and even rival the developed economies of Europe and America.