Download logo On Friday, March 10, 2023, the Communities of Masakhane and Blompark were showered with keys to their brand-new homes to commemorate Human Rights month. It was a day filled with tears of joy and jubilation for the beneficiaries.  The Provincial Minister of Infrastructure started the day at the Blompark project where he handed over new homes added to 150 that were delivered in December 2022. The handover forms part of the 100 homes that will be given to qualifying beneficiaries over the next couple of weeks by the Overstrand Municipality. Upon completion, the project is expected to create 589 housing opportunities. Multiple job opportunities have been created by the R98 Million project. An emotional Leonie Pieters (59), a beneficiary who has a hearing impairment, described the day as a dream come true. Her daughter translated “having lived most of my life on farms and informality I simply cannot thank our government enough for fulfilling my lifelong dream.” Joined by the Executive Mayor of Overstrand Municipality Dr. Annelie Rabie. Minister Simmers then proceeded to the Masakhane housing project to make more dreams come true. Waiting for the officials was a jubilant community who will for the first time move into adequate homes. Leading the masses in song was the elderly beneficiary Ms. Hilda Ngqoshana. “though there were times when it didn’t look like this day would come. We remained hopeful and kept our faith in God and today he has shone his grace upon us. I will now spend my retirement years in the comfort of my own home” said the 63-year-old Ms. Ngqoshana.” Speaking on the day’s proceedings Minister Simmers said: “Today my heart is filled with joy as we brought smiles and hope into so many people’s lives. This was made possible by the collaborative efforts of the two spheres of government as well as these communities. I can truly say we have restored hope in the communities of Gansbaai.” “I commend all parties involved as we managed to deliver 250 homes within 18 months of turning sod. A display of urgency at the forefront of service delivery” concluded the Minister. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Western Cape Government: Office of the Premier.