The Port Manager, Lagos Port Complex, Mrs. Olufunmilayo Olotu, has called on women to build capacity and explore the inherent shipping opportunities at the Lagos ports. Olotu, in her presentation at the International Women Day (IWD), enjoined women to exhibit competence and courage to deliver their duties excellently. She called for gender equality, bemoaning the stereotype in workplaces, as women are endowed with what it takes to rule the world. According to her, the theme ‘Embrace Equity’ was not a call for competition, but a call for competence. “Once you are competent, you don’t struggle to be recognised, acknowledged and to be given your due place in any organisation. “Today, at Lagos Port Complex, we join the whole world to celebrate women’s achievements; educate and raise awareness about women’s equality; call for positive change and advancing women,” she said. Olotu urged the women to help forge a gender equal world by raising their children boy and girl in equal manner. “I will help forge a gender equal world, and it starts with you as a mother, a wife, a sister and daughter. How do raise your male and female children?” She queried. She enjoined woman to shun the “pull her down” syndrome, but encourage their gender to progress in various spheres of life. Olotu acknowledged women, who positively influenced operations at Lagos port such as the first female Port Manager in NPA – Princess Bassey of blessed memory; first female Executive Director, NPA and former Port Manager at LPC, Ms. Elizabeth Aina Egharevba; Executive Vice Chairman, ENL Consortium, Princess Vicky Haastrup; Managing Director, Lagos Deep Offshore Logistic Base (LADOL), Dr. Amy Jadesimi. Others are: the first female Port Manager LPC, Princess A. A. A.  Aroloye; WILAT Founder, immediate past Port Manager, LPC and first female General Manager, Marine and Operations at NPA, Hajia Aisha Ibrahim; Chairperson, Women’s International Shipping and Trading Association (WISTA Nigeria) and former Port Manager, LPC, Mrs. Eunice Ezeoke; Mrs. Folake George, an accomplished transporter and Olotu, who is now the longest serving female port manager in Nigeria. She was recognised by NPA as the best performing port manager in Nigeria in 2021. Also speaking, Pilot Juliet Biodun, the first female pilot at LPC said it was not easy breaking the glass celling in men’s world, but her courage and attention to details helped her to triumph. Director-General, Chamber of Shipping, Mrs. Vivian Chimezie-Azubuike, applauded the NPA women for making significant impact in the sector. She enjoined the women to keep the life-work balance, by ensuring all aspects are done brilliantly. 