In a surprise moves, the immediate past Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr Yakubu Dogara has endorsed the candidature of Air Marshall Sadiq Baba Abubakar (rtd) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for next week’s Governoship  election in Bauchi State. Dogara led a campaign team of Air Marshall Sadiq Baba Abubakar across some Bauchi local governments including Kirfi and Alkaleri where Governor Bala Mohammed came from where he urged the people to toe the path of honour by voting out the Bala Mohammed from office. Speaking to a mammoth crowd of supporters in Alkaleri Local Government Area of Bauchi State  on Wednesday , Dogara maintained that the state is desirous of a change in leadership. Said he: “We came to tell you the truth, that we need to effect a change of leadership in Bauchi State. I  came here to enlighten you that even though your son (Governor Mohammed) is there but since he is not doing well we should change him . I urge you all to cast your vote for Air Marshall Sadiq Abubakar on Saturday.” He described Air Marshall Abubakar as a father who will bring succour to the people of Bauchi State. Recalled that Dogara endorsed and delivered the APC candidate for his Federal Constituency of Bogoro/Dass/Tafawa Balewa, Jafaru Leko and the Bauchi South Senatorial District, Shehu Buba in the just concluded National Assembly polls. The former Speaker is a member of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and member of the Presidential Campaign Council of the party’s presidential candidate Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. In 2019, he helped mobilised and led a coalition of political parties and interest groups in Bauchi which ousted former governor Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar and installed Senator Bala Mohammed in 2019. However, shortly after the elections governor Bala Mohammed reneged on all political agreements he entered into before the election and declared political war on prominent citizens of the state who opposed his style of governance including Dogara and an elderstatesman Alhaji Bello Kirfi, who was a minister in the second Republic under president Shehu Shagari. Dogara had accused Mohammed of corruption including non-payment of salaries of teachers  and civil servants. 