The Peak Performer (TPP), a platform where African industry leaders, culture shapers, and game changers gain insights to achieve peak performance, has rolled out the drums to recognise some crème de la crème in Africa at the maiden edition of TPP 100. The event, dedicated to celebrating highly esteemed leaders across Africa, will be held on Thursday, 23rd March 2023, at the Muson Centre in Lagos, Nigeria, on the theme, “In Pursuit of Greatness!” Among the top 100 TPP are the Governor of Lagos	(Nigeria), Babajide Sanwo-Olu; the Olu of Warri (Nigeria), Ogiame Atuwatse III; Lady Maiden Ibru – Group CEO, The Guardian (Nigeria); Prince Nduka Obaigbena- Chairman, THISDAY Group Nigeria. Olori Atuwatse III – Olori of Warri (Nigeria); Agbaoye Kola Karim – Chairman, Shoreline Energy Group (Nigeria); Mr. Keli Gadzekpo – CEO, Enterprise Group (Ghana). Mr. Kunle Elebute – Ex-Chairman, KPMG Africa (Nigeria); Mr. Faustin Byishimo – Country Managing Director, Access Bank (Rwanda); Mr. Mbulelo Clive Khoza- Managing Director, CLM Africa (South Africa); Mr. Atedo Peterside – Founder, StanbicIBTC Group (Nigeria). Mrs. Ifueko Omoigui Okauru, MFR-Chairman, PZ Cussons (Nigeria); Mr. Ameyaw Debrah-Ghanaian Celebrity Blogger (Ghana); Mr. Mohammed Alhaji Samoura- MD/CEO United Bank of Africa (Sierra Leone); Mr. Mohammed Gillen, CEO, MOREM Consulting & Advisory Services Limited (The Gambia) and others They fall within 14 categories ranging from TPP Elite, Hall of Fame, and Legacy to Excellence across multiple professions, among a host of others. According to the Editor-in-Chief of TPP, Dr Abiola Salami, “A panel of jury carefully selected these captains of industries after a rigorous process from the 1,683 entries we received across the continent.” The convener noted that these 100 recipients are being honoured for their commitment to excellence and sterling contributions to greatness in diverse sectors on the African continent. “In our work with leaders over the past decade, we discovered that if we genuinely want to inspire growth across the continent, we need to tell the authentic African story by spotlighting credible leaders with admirable skills on the continent. “Therefore, in our quest to find these credible leaders, we called for nominations in 2022, leveraging the 27 Skills in Xceptional Leadership TM. This led to the 1,683 entries recorded,” he expressed. Meanwhile, TPP 100 recognition comes alongside the debut of The Peak Performer (TPP), a premium African thought-leadership platform that delivers content online and offline. The Peak Performer magazine will be available in both print and e-version. TPP targets one million downloads for the e-version and ten million readers of the online platform within the first six months of launch. It’s called TPP Project 1+10 million. The platform kicked off online in early 2022 with valuable content for both aspiring and exemplary industry leaders. “Based on our overall goal to have inspired 1 billion Champions by Thursday, 30th November 2026, TPP aims to be the essential provider of insights to every leader seeking growth in their pursuit of greatness,” says Salami. According to the world-class performer strategist, leadership development and leadership branding are two strategies global leaders leverage to record outstanding results. This is what we are birthing in Africa with The Peak Performer. The magazine features inspiring stories and experiences of leaders in sectors ranging from technology; problem-solving & change; leadership & entrepreneurship; environment, social & governance; personal growth & transformation; people, productivity & synergy, among others. All these align with our resolution to build Africa, one mind at a time. Peak Performing Africa started unofficially in 2012 with CHAMP, a full-service consulting firm trusted by high-performing business leaders for providing workforce development, advisory services, and executive coaching for C-level executives. While acknowledging support from various parties, Salami said, “We appreciate the visionary organisations and individuals who took a chance on us to collaborate with us and showcase their brands – personality, thought leadership, products, and services as we kick-start The Peak Performer.” 