The 2022/2023 English Premier League has been an exciting season with wonder goals, surprising comebacks, and unexpected wins. With five points more than second-placed Manchester City on the league table, Arsenal has been nothing short of impressive. British-Nigerian, Bukayo Saka has scored ten goals this season and kept himself on top of the league. Closely trailed by Pep Guardiola of Manchester City and a revived Manchester United squad, who are currently six points behind Man City, the title race is far from being decided. The quest on who will become champion of England continues this week. Newcastle returns this weekend to face off against Man City after their defeat at the Carabao cup finals last Sunday against the red devils. It’s a lot of energy running up and down their spines, and they can’t wait to get into action. Meanwhile, Man City still has its eyes on topping the table. It will be decided today by 1:30 pm on Showmax and DStv Supersport Premier League. Recently, Arsenal remarkable victories have allowed them maintain their position at the top. Having just lost three games in the season, Arsenal might break their 18 years without a premier league title.  Find out if Arsenal will continue their winning streak and edge closer to the title today by 4:00 pm. It has been a terrible season for Chelsea, and there has been lots of tension. Having played six consecutive games without a win, Graham Porter certainly hasn’t had the best time lately. There’s been a lot of pressure on him, and some fans are starting to demand results. But could there be a narrative change in this match against Leeds United today? Find out at 4:00 pm on DStv Supersport Football (Ch. 205) or Showmax. Manchester United has enjoyed five wins and a draw in the last six matches, and the presence of Rashford has made for a thrilling few games. After a stunning 3-1 victory over West Ham on March 1, 2022, which included a remarkable shot from Fred during the FA Cup round five, it seems that more triumphs are on the horizon after the Erik Ten Hag side lifted their first triumph in 30 years. Even though Liverpool has edged to the sixth position in the league table after a slow start, the clash between these old rivalries will be iconic. The upcoming match between both teams will test skill and tactics and will show tomorrow at 5:30 pm on DStv Supersport Premier League.