 Rihanna Instagram pictures Rihanna Robyn Fenty is known to be a spotlight stealer everywhere she goes, whether she’s breaking the internet with a Super Bowl Halftime Show while subsequently announcing her second pregnancy. The singer-songwriter also blessed us with another live performance and, of course, in true Rihanna style, dazzling maternity looks. Rihanna was first spotted in a gray Eagles T-shirt, an olive bucket hat, Fenty Puma trainers, and a matching tote bag paired with sunglasses while entering the Dolby Theatre. The singer proceeded to change into the first of three spectacular outfits. For her appearance on the red carpet, she opted for an Alaïa ensemble. A chocolate bra and maxi skirt layered over a black sheer mesh turtleneck top. The bold dark brown skirt had numerous thigh cutouts for a dramatic flair on the sides and a train. Her accessories were Moussaieff High jewellery and strappy heels. Her hair was up in a spiky bun that highlighted her face. And as for her makeup, she wore glittering silver eyeshadow, rosy pink blush, and her signature red lips, courtesy of her Super Bowl halftime performance. The Oscar-nominated actress donned a stunning ensemble to perform her song “Life Me Up” from Black Panther: Wakanda Forever. The track bagged a nomination for Best Original Song, earning Rihanna her first Oscar nomination. For the performance, Rihanna looked amazing in a black crystal embellished bra featuring mesh straps. Paired with matching black pants with golden floral designs. Her choice of accessories were custom-made Maison Margiela black pumps, black leather opera gloves, layered diamond necklaces, a thick diamond bracelet worn over her gloves, and diamond drop earrings. Riri also posed for a series of pictures backstage with her baby daddy and rapper, A$AP Rocky. She was styled in yet another custom-made piece by Bottega Veneta, a silk siren green off-shoulder bustier and skirt, leather gloves, and a shearling stole set. Watch her performance at the 94th Oscars Awards.