Nigeria’s lingering energy crisis, possible solutions to the bottlenecks and pathways to energy transition in Africa will be on the spotlight as global industry experts gather at the Middle East Energy Conference. The conference, scheduled for Dubai next week, would propose leeway to Nigeria and the African energy crisis amid energy transition. Speaking at a virtual press conference, Exhibition Director, Energy Portfolio – MEA, Informa Markets, Ade Yesufu decried the prevailing energy situation in Nigeria, stressing the right policy and political will remained sacrosanct to creating investor’s confidence and make the sector bankable. According to him, the event would present solutions that will help address metering challenges, improve existing infrastructure, connect Nigeria to necessary investors and expose the country to innovations that would improve the sector. Noting that the country’s economy and industrial agenda will be feasible if energy deficit is bridged, Yesufu said the exhibition offered opportunities to engage investors and technology that would improve electricity challenges in the country. According to him, Middle East Energy provides a unique platform for energy leaders to debate and shape the future and join forces to plot the best route through the energy transition. Yusufu said: “The value of Middle East Energy to Nigeria and the MEA region is its ability to gather all the key players in the global energy sector under one roof to showcase and discover thousands of energy innovations and solutions. Over the years, the event has been instrumental in driving transformation across energy industries as it offers a platform for unmatched opportunities in terms of engagement, networking, and investments. From uncovering solutions to critical business challenges to connecting buyers to energy product suppliers, Middle East Energy is a full-service channel to transform the energy sector and drive energy transition globally.” Organised by leading global exhibitions organiser Informa Markets, the 48th edition of the event is bringing together buyers and sellers from across different countries to explore the latest advancements in energy products and solutions. It will provide unmatched opportunities to network with international energy suppliers, discover products and solutions that are changing the energy landscape, and build long-lasting business relationships. Conference Director, Energy Portfolio – MEA, Informa Markets, Afrah Packirsaibo noted that the event would prioritize innovation and technology towards net-zero, especially energy solutions like hydrogen and solar. She noted challenges such as access to finance, improvement infrastructure, security, digital technology mini-grid technology, gas to power. Noting that utilities companies across Africa are billed to attend the programme, Packirsaibo said the platform would serve as a bridge where technology manufacturers, government and investors would meet to proffer solutions to global energy issues. Packirsaibo said, “The theme guiding this year’s event focuses on implementing solutions to modern energy challenges. All the solution providers and innovations to be explored at Middle East Energy are powered to drive the energy transition forward whether that is through energy efficiency, decarbonisation, digitalisation, or enabling critical infrastructure to be future-ready. “The conferences serve as a platform to uncover success stories, case studies, learnings, and actionable best practices that can be implemented into business practices and corporate environments to drive sustainable growth. It is a unique opportunity for stakeholders in Africa’s energy ecosystem to network with key players in the industry, driving collaborations, partnerships, and knowledge-sharing that will transcend the show.” She noted that stakeholders from the ministry of power, Transmission Company of Nigeria, Rural Electrification Agency and other players in Nigeria and across Africa would be at the conference. With over 900 exhibitors, the programme would feature high-level strategic conferences, which outline the blueprint to fastening the energy transition. At the forefront of the event is the mission to guide the MEA region through the energy transition in order to build resilient energy systems and infrastructures. The global energy transition holds new promise for Nigeria’s economic and social development, with renewable energy and other emerging areas offering robust growth potential. 