Labaran Magaji, a stalwart of APC in Nasarawa state, has appealed to aggrieved members to eschew their differences and work for re-election of Gov. Abdullahi Sule. Magaji made the appeal in Keffi Local Government Area of the state on Monday at a meeting with a forum of all Nasarawa State aspirants of APC who contested for one position or the other during the party’s primary elections in 2022. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that top among the grievances of the former party aspirants is the controversy over the delegates list used to conduct the party primary elections in the state in 2022, which they rejected. Speaking shortly after the meeting, Magaji said he pleaded with the party stakeholders, especially the aggrieved ones, to put aside their grievances and work in unison, to deliver victory for Sule because he possessed the political wherewithal ahead of his co- contestants. Magaji said he decided to call for the meeting to harmonise the existing support which some of them had for the incumbent governor and to galvanise support for his re-election. “The idea is to galvanise support for His Excellency, Abdullahi Sule and I am happy because at the end of the meeting, we have been able to reach a remarkable consensus. “We have also agreed to work for the return of the governor to power in the Saturday’s elections. This initiative is necessary because as a grassroots politician myself, I know each and every member of this forum of APC aspirants during the party’s last primary elections in the state. “It will interest the public to know that these aspirants are rooted in their respective committees, wards, local government areas and their constituencies; as such, they have vital roles to play in the coming elections. “So, this meeting is very necessary and you could see the kind of passion in every one of them. “We pray by the special grace of God, Sule will be reelected without any hesitation and settle down quickly to actually forge ahead in his determination to uplift the living standard of people of the state,” he said. Magaji, also a senatorial aspirant for Nasarawa West Senatorial zone, said he had maximum respect for all the gubernatorial candidates of other political parties for coming out to contest, but added that none of them had the leadership qualities of the incumbent governor. He described the position of the Nasarawa State governor as very important which needed to be piloted by someone with good leadership qualities. “Abdullahi Sule is ahead of all the other contestants and that goes to show that they are not competent to contest. “Their pedigree cannot be equaled with him because the governor is competent, has capacity, capability, experience, know-how and well educated,” he said. He called on people of the state to come out en masse during Saturday’s election to exercise their franchise and vote wisely by voting for the incumbent governor. The Chairman of the forum, Kasim Mohammed-Kasim, a former member of Nasarawa State House of Assembly, urged members of the forum to eschew their grievances concerning what transpired during their primary elections and work for the reelection of Sule. “The purpose of our reunion is to come together and take unanimous decisions to mobilize for the re-election bid of Gov. Abdullah Sule and to reassure him that because of his competence, capacity and what he has done for the people, we will work for his reelection,” Mohammed-Kasim said. 