The Africa Association of Professional Freight Forwarders and Logistics of Nigeria (APFFLON) has moved against the alleged plans by Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN) to shutdown ports operation across the nation, saying this will lead to huge economic and financial losses and inflation in the country. This is even as the freight-forwarding group urged the leadership of MWUN to explore a better option to seek Federal Government’s commitment to workers’ welfare, while expressing fears over the hardship this action will have on port operations and the economy. The National President of APFFLON, Frank Ogunojemite, made the plea following the order given to the leadership of the MWUN by the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) to shutdown the nation’s seaports over the Federal Government’s and shipping companies’ failure to improve the welfare of workers in the maritime industry. Recall that the President of NLC, Joe Ajaero, had, during a recent courtesy visit to the President General of MWUN, Adewale Adeyanju, directed the union to issue a two-week ultimatum to the government to review worker’s salaries and address a myriad of issues affecting the sector. The NLC boss stated that failure to take action would leave the union with no other option than to shut down operations at the nation’s seaports. The leadership of MWUN alleged that letters had been written to the Federal Government since 2021 seeking its intervention, but government has not responsed whatsoever, just as Ajaero berated the Federal Government for snubbing the union, noting, “every illegal action requires an illegal approach.” Meanwhile, the APFFLON boss expressed worry over the current economic situation, saying it has already impoverished many Nigerians as port operations have been crippled by tough fiscal policies, foreign exchange challenges and uncertainties following the elections and coming change in administration. Ogunojemite also lamented the hardship and deprivation associated with bad policies, stating the government has succeeded in emasculating private businesses as importers now find it very difficult to take delivery of their consignments, especially vehicles due to unimaginable increase in export duty. “Port business and Nigerians, in general, are being held down by very unfriendly trade and monetary policies that need to be urgently reviewed to enable the citizens to have their lives back. Nigerians are frustrated and do not have the latitude or patience to keep enduring the hardship. “It is pertinent that the government carefully weighs the implications of every policy before implementation and leaders of various groups like the MWUN must not take any action that could worsen the situation, even though they have legitimate claims. “While we hope that the incoming administration will look into these areas and make life better for citizens, APFFLON earnestly pleads with the labour union and leadership of MWUN to consider the very difficult economic situation and explore a better way for reconciliation instead of shutting down the ports. We also urge the federal government to speedily look into the matter since it concerns the welfare of workers,” Ogunojemite said.