Before the elections, I was tempted to write an article with the above title. But I feared that with the now recognised hollow promises of Mahmood Yakubu and President Buhari, which they made at various settings, both in and outside the country of their commitment to the delivery of credible and transparent elections, one would have been accused of being very cynical and too pessimistic about the will of both men to do good. Now in view of the charade elections of February25, 2023, one would have been completely vindicated with that prophecy. For those who might have wondered how ugly Nigeria is, Yakubu and Buhari have exposed its nakedness for public viewing. Oh, how so ugly! The truth about Nigeria’s public behaviour is that it is without fail very predictable. And we know this because any society run by unabashed criminals operates on its own moral code, entirely separate from the agreed civilised moral values of normal societies. Perhaps, the greatest problem Nigerians and Nigeria faces is the absence of a national consensus on the fact that the country is fully in control of criminals. Without reaching that necessary consensus, it is difficult to see the country get out of its nadir. If it is agreed that the country is in complete control of gangsters and reprobates, the country can be redeemed. But there must be a reasonable question following from such self-realisation, which is – how to price power out of the hands of these bunch? Sadly, that task cannot be accomplished through moral suasion. The perquisite of office in Nigeria is extremely intoxicating and you can’t have a dialogue with inebriated criminals luxuriating in unimaginable wealth. The only way to price power out of the hands of these lots is present them with a horrible alternative. So, they have to be presented with the choice of either to voluntarily leave power, or they will leave in dire circumstances. It is seriously hoped the 2023 elections will act as a seminal moment for Nigerians, an opportunity to move for national liberation and, to gain their freedom from the reign of ravenous beasts. It is absolutely important that the current public expression of moral outrage trailing the elections must lead to a national rebirth. But if the people fail to seize the moment of the flawed election, and characteristically revert to their reverie, then in future when similar circumstances arise, it would cry no more enough of your crocodile tears. Ogbonda writes from UK. While calling for support and partnership, the NITDA DG said there is a need for the private sector to keep supporting the agency through the payment of the yearly technology development levy. He called on corporate organisations to key into the tech capacity-building agenda of the government. “We want you to see this as an opportunity for us to build Nigerian talents. You will benefit more because the government will only create the value while you capture the values in terms of your services,” he said. On his part, the Chairman of FIRS, Muhammad Nami, who was represented by Group Lead, General Tax Operations Group, FIRS, Abba Kabiru, reminded the stakeholders that the NITDA is funded through the payment of a levy of one per cent of profit before tax of companies and enterprises enumerated in the 3rd schedule of the NITDA Act which includes pension managers and pension related companies, telecommunication companies, cyber companies, insurance companies and banks/other financial institutions.
caution under all manner of vicious legislations. Regulators cannot be expected to protect the liberty of professionals when the regulator itself is also stifled. Policies, legislations, regulations and practices that hinder professionals in the electoral process and beyond must, therefore, be removed. The statement called on: security agencies to demonstrate full understanding of the role of journalists and other media professionals in the electoral process and provide protection for them; political parties to orientate their representatives on the election field on the need to cooperate with journalists. It urged regulatory agencies to prioritise the protection of the freedom of journalists and the media; the Federal Government to complete the broadcasting sector reforms it initiated in 2019, in line with international standards and the National Assembly to complete the amendment process of the NBC Act, paying priority attention to the independence and secure funding of the regulator, transparency of the licensing process, plurality of the landscape and liberty of the Media.