The Lagos state governorship candidate of the Labour Party, Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour, has stated that his party members will not be intimidated by anyone and urged the youth not to be discouraged by the outcome of the presidential elections. Rhodes-Vivour, during a press conference on Wednesday, stated the vote was manipulated because results weren’t electronically transmitted by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).
He criticized the intimidation and harassment of voters that tainted the state’s election last Saturday for the presidential and National Assembly elections, and he tasked security agencies with guarding state voters against thugs’ intimidation and repression. Rhodes-Vivour, however, urged residents to stand strong and not be deterred by the outcome of the election but to come out en masse and vote out the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the gubernatorial and state assembly polls. “Our victory is for the people of Lagos and it has set up the foundation upon which we can change the status quo and begin to build a better Lagos moving forward. At this moment, I feel your despair, frustration, and anger at this system, which callously tries to subvert our will and makes us feel like our votes don’t matter. Do not despair, my people,” Rhodes-Vivour said. “Our votes actually count and it has retired some members of the status quo already. I have also heard about the threats they make to your livelihood, the intimidation of your businesses, and the violence they have promised to unleash on you. “Stand strong, for I will stand firm with you through this all and together we shall prevail, and after we achieve victory, none of them will dare you. We must keep the fire burning, and even if they attempt to cower us, the only thing they cannot kill is our hope. “Our hope has kept us going in the face of intimidation, thuggery, and suppression. Our hope for a better Lagos and a better Nigeria has brought us this far. It has set us apart in this electoral cycle.”