Managing Director of Nigeria’s construction company, Julius Berger Plc, Dr. Lars Richter has called for cooperation of all stakeholders to meet the deadline for the Ahoada-Omoku road dualisation extension project. Dr. Richter made the call during the commissioning of the completed Azikiwe/Iloabuchi Road and flag off of the dualisation of Ahoada-Omoku road and the reconstruction and that of Emohua Road to Abalama/Tema Junction in Rivers State. He assured the government and people of Rivers State of prompt delivery of top-quality projects within the agreed schedule. He said: “To meet the construction deadline, which is actually short, we need the cooperation of all stakeholders involved. The good and cooperative collaboration with the Rivers State administration so far makes me very confident that we will also successfully realise this project as a well-coordinated team. “ I plead for understanding from communities along the road alignment because they will all benefit from the project at the end of the day.” Earlier, Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike said he believed that Rivers people deserve the best, which is why his administration has not looked back on committing resources, while engaging the best construction firm, Julius Berger, to deliver those critical roads and other infrastructural projects.
Wike thanked Julius Berger for the company’s efforts at giving the state “beautiful infrastructures that will stand the test of time.” He said the road project is dear to his heart and would want it completed as soon as possible. The Governor recalled that when phase one of the Ahoada -Omoku Road was inaugurated, he promised to return and flag off phase two of the road, adding that it has now been awarded to Julius Berger Nigeria Plc to handle. According to the Rivers State Governor, it is now a promise fulfilled to Rivers people. He said when the road project is completed, it will not only ease movement of farm produce from the rural area to the city, but also reduce travel time and encourage people to stay in their communities and go to work in Port Harcourt. The Ahoada-Omoku Road Project is expected to have a significant impact on the communities in the area, as it will provide better access to schools, hospitals, and other public facilities. Another road project completed by Julius Berger Nigeria Plc, the Azikiwe/Iloabuchi Road, was also commissioned by Governor Wike.
Giving his speech during the commissioning, the Managing Director said: “This project for which we are gathered here today was awarded to us only on the 19th of July last year with completion period of six months, which was achieved. “This completed road construction project is another addition to 10 flyovers and other road works, which our company also constructed and commissioned here in Rivers State. The remaining two flyovers are at their various stages of completion.” “We have achieved this through the co-operation of our client, the Rivers State Ministry of Works and the various affected communities, whose enormous sacrifice had paid off today.” 