A WORLD in dialogue
In general, the world is in an era of dialogue. People have begun to listen to one another and getting to know each other. The modern improvement in means of transportation and communication continues to make our planet into a global village. It is therefore not surprising that those who thought of others as far away must now begin to learn to live with them. We have seen this recently in positive development with regards to mutual understanding between the major religions of the world. A good example is what has been happening between Pope Francis and the Sunni leader of the world Muslim community, the Imam of Al-Azhar, Sheikh Ahmad Al Tayeb. They jointly signed a statement in February 2021 which clearly spelt out a wide range of common grounds in basic values of our two religions. The movement that they started has continued and is growing not only between Catholics and Sunni Muslims but between Christians and Muslims in general and between Christian Muslims and other faiths like Hindus, Buddhist and others. I believe this kind of attitude of reaching out to others should even go further to include those who may not claim to be religious but who have clear minds on how to live a sincere life. I imagine your confraternity will fall in that category. There is much work being done not only between different religions but also within different religions. We should not forget that sometimes, there are greater conflicts within some religions than there are between different religions. This has been the sad lesson of our human history. We consider for example, Sunnis versus Shiites in the Islamic world and between Catholics and Protestants in the Christian fold. In this regard, two issues need to be taken seriously. First, we must search for our common grounds, discover them and celebrate them. Unfortunately, the fact that we have so many differences tend to blind us to the many common values that we share, not only in terms doctrinal truth but also in terms of moral principles. A good example is the fact that most religions believe in the same one God, whom however they understand in different ways. Recognition of these facts makes all the difference in our effort to speak together and work together in facing common challenges instead of scattering our efforts in different directions or worse still sometimes neutralising those efforts. The CATHOLIC SOCIAL DOCTRINES (CSD)
Before I end this conversation, permit me to propose that the Catholic Church has a body of teaching called Catholic Social Doctrines (CSD) which presents itself as the special contribution of our church to the solution of the problem of nation building, peaceful living together and building human fraternity. Our Catholic Church claims to be “expert in humanity” and our church leadership, especially the Pope, dares to refer to itself as “Mater et Magister” meaning Mother and Teacher. The Church has been in existence since more than two thousand years and has had experience in all kinds of human organisations and governments. It is therefore not for nothing that it has come out with series of well-articulated principles to guide humanity on the way to live together as brothers and sisters and children of one God. The CSD is not a teaching for Catholics alone. It is rather the teaching that the Catholic Church has put together to be made available to all humanity, Catholics and non-Catholics, Christians and non-Christians, Muslims and any other faiths. Those who have cared to take a good look at this body of teaching have agreed that there is a lot in it to learn from. In this occasion I want to point out only two issues and they have to do with regards to the concept of power and governance. Our catholic social teaching has two principles that must be thoroughly adhered to. The first is that all power belongs to God and all human rulers must rule according to his will. No human being has a right to rule another human being since everybody is equal before God. However, for the sake of social life living in peace and harmony we do need to have some people who are in positions of leadership. But they must rule in the name of God. Interestingly, in this regard I have discovered that we are on the same page with our Muslim brothers and sisters. The second important teaching is that political leadership must be for the service of the common good. The second Vatican Council which took place from 1963 to 1965 has a very powerful exhortation which is addressed to Catholic lay faithful, which is also valid for anyone who cares to listen. A very important text is in the document on “The Church in the Modern World” Gaudium Et Spes chapter 75 which goes as follows: Those with a talent for the difficult yet noble art of politics, or whose talents in this matter can be developed, should prepare themselves for it, and forgetting their own convenience and material interests, they should engage in political activity.” Politicians in Nigeria hardly ever go into politics with such noble intentions and attitudes. But that is the type of sane politics that can rescue our nation unto greatness. This same document a few lines earlier had thrown the challenge to Catholic politicians as follows: “Every citizen ought to be mindful of his right and his duty to promote the common good by using his vote. The Church praises and esteems those who devote themselves the public good for the service of men and take upon themselves the burdens of public office.” The challenge can hardly be clearer. It is not for Catholics only, but for all politicians. If we have the fear of God and regard for our fellow men and women, then all will go well with us in any Nation. The Old Testament said it long ago that “righteousness exalts a nation.” Proverbs 14:24. Concluded. Onaiyekan, (CON), Catholic Archbishop Emeritus of Abuja, delivered this as keynote address at the 70th anniversary of National Association of Seadogs held in Abuja on December 10, 2022. 