Professor Christopher Imumolen may prove to be a major factor in Nigeria’s presidential election, as he recently caused an upset by beating 13 out of the 18 candidates vying for the office of Nigeria’s president on February 25 in an independent poll conducted on Friday. The feat is all the more remarkable considering the fact that seasoned politician and former Kano State governor, Rabiu Kwankwaso was one of the co-aspirants the 39-year-old Imumolen got the better of. Imumolen, before now had often been overlooked when it came to the candidates who had the wherewithal to upset the odds and make an impact in February’s presidential elections because of his relative newness on the country’s political scene. But results of Friday’s “Nigeria Decides” polls looks set to change that perspective. The country’s youngest presidential candidate has often sold his message of emancipation of the Nigerian people, exhibiting a passion yet unmatched in the annals of politicking and political campaigns in the country. The polls which convincingly helped him to fourth place, garnering a princely 2,706 votes to beat Kwankwaso (who polled 2,670 votes) to place fifth may be an indication that his gospel of freedom from inept, corrupt-laden leadership is now being fully imbibed by Nigerians who are desperate to make a change, using the power of the ballot come this February. Only Peter Obi, Bola Tinubu, and Atiku Abubakar finished ahead of Imumolen in the independent polls. Before Friday’s polls, only the aforementioned candidates, Tinubu (APC), Atiku (PDP), and Obi (Labour), as well as Kwankwaso (NNPP), were considered the frontline candidates. But results of Friday’s polls has drastically changed that perception as Imumolen jumps into fourth spot, heading into next month’s presidential elections, according to what “Nigeria Decides” just said. The youthful academic and philanthropist has often said he was very much in the frame to change the age-long stereotypes of an entrenched culture where only past-their-prime, geriatric politicians believed they, only, had the monopoly to the corridors of power in the country. “The 2023 general elections is sure going to be a watershed in our history as a country as the status quo will be shattered. “Nigerians should brace up for the unexpected because the old system of doing things shall give way for the new,” he had often said. 