• Urges support to realise presidential ambition The presidential candidate of Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi, has expressed worry over the situation where almost everybody in Nigeria is complaining about the socio-economic and political problems bedeviling the country. Obi, who addressed members of Anambra State Traditional Rulers Council in Awka, yesterday, linked the problems to youth unemployment, insecurity, corruption etc. He, however, assured that building a new Nigeria is possible.
Obi added that building a country where people would enjoy equal opportunities, irrespective of social status, is possible. He was accompanied by top LP chieftains, including the party’s three senatorial candidates in the state, Victor Umeh, Godwin Uzor, and Dr. Tony Nwoye, as well as former commissioners during his tenure as governor of the state. The traditional rulers were the Chairman, Anambra State Traditional Rulers Council, Igwe Nnemeka Achebe of Onitsha, Igwe Gibson Nwosu of Awka, Igwe of Okpuno, Sunday Okafor and others. He noted that many people are suffering in Nigeria due to bad leadership, lack of accountability, dependence on sharing, among other ills, arguing that LP will work to solve these problems. Obi said: “Nigeria’s population is about 200 million; but over 133 million are living in poverty. We have the highest number of drug peddlers among our youth population, and they are unemployed. With these problems, there is no way we cannot have insecurity.” “Everybody is complaining. There is high cost of living, fuel cost is rising, we have over 400 per cent increase in debt.” On solution to tackle insecurity and produce enough food for the people, he said that Nigeria should go back to agriculture by cultivating vast arable and fertile areas, especially in states like Bornu, Taraba and Niger. He said: “We will encourage agrarian revolution. Nigeria has vast land. People would be employed in farms to cultivate flowers, coffee and so on to earn revenue. We need to increase production and drive export.” He equally condemned problems of fuel scarcity, saying oil subsidy is an organised crime.
While calling for support to realise his ambition of becoming the president of Nigeria, Obi declared that his interest is not about tribe or religion, but to salvage Nigeria. “I am contesting election in Nigeria because I am the most qualified, competent and ready to serve as president of Nigeria.   Nigeria is not a retirement loan. I am the youngest of all the major contestants; and with Datti Ahmed, we are prepared to govern,” Obi said.