The Nigerian Citizens Association South Africa (NICASA) has flayed invasion of Nigeria Consulate General premises in Johannesburg by City Power and Johannesburg Metro Police.
Kareem Tunde, NICASA Secretary General, disclosed this in a statement against the backdrop of the association’s reaction to invasion of Nigeria Consulate by South African authorities. Tunde said, “We wish to express our stance on the issue involving the Consulate General in Johannesburg and the City Power in the place. “We condemn the unwarranted actions by City Power and the Police cohort on the property of the Consulate of Nigeria. “It is clear that City Power was out to embarrass and humiliate Nigeria and Nigerian citizens in the place. “There cannot be any plausible excuse to warrant the invasion of Nigeria Consulate General; the action is very retrogressive, xenophobic and avoidable.” He decried actions by City Power, saying if they could invade the Consulate of any country without consequences, then the Police could do same. According to him, the Police could as well go into any Consulate and make arrest without respect for the Vienna Convention on consular relations. “We hope the government of the two countries will take strong action against those responsible over this reprehensible act to avoid reoccurrence. “NICASA will like to advise our citizens to remain calm, the matter is being handled diplomatically by the Consular General and will be resolved satisfactorily,” he added. In the same vein, Nigeria Union Gauteng described the act as disrespectful to the Vienne Convention on Diplomatic Missions. The union mentioned that City Power and Johannesburg Metro Police had on Jan. 18, invaded Nigeria diplomatic premises in Johannesburg, without due consultations and permission by the Consulate General. The union in its statement, observed similar situation occurred on Dec. 11, 2011, but that the allegedly heavily armed Police from Bramley Police Station were denied access by consular officials. It also warned that if such reoccurred again, the Union would have no other choice than to mobilize the community to a peaceful protest. 