Pledges to govern Kaduna with justice Labour Party (LP) Governorship candidate in Kaduna State, Jonathan Asake, assured the Muslim community in the state that he will operate on the principles of justice as enshrined in the 1999 Constitution, if elected into office in March. Asake gave the assurance in Zaria, at the weekend, when he and his running mate, Bashir Idris, met with Muslim clerics, in continuation of their dialogue with stakeholders in the state. He said as religious leaders, who command large following, majority of whom have been negatively affected by the policies of the All Progressives Congress (APC) government, it was imperative to seek their prayers, support and interact on the way forward for the state. The governorship flag-bearer said he would defend the rights of citizens to exercise their socio-cultural and religious freedom at all times, adding that inclusiveness would be his watchword. In a statement by his media aide, James Swam, the governorship candidate urged the clerics to deeply reflect on the prevailing economic and security situations of the state and preach the truth, so that the electorate would understand what choice to make on March 11. Said Asake: “I came to unveil myself to you, to seek your prayers and support to succeed in becoming the governor of Kaduna come March 11, so that, together, we can secure the state and restore hope to the people. I will defend all and promote all. Each person will exercise their freedom as the constitution permits.” He, however, lamented that poverty, unemployment, banditry, kidnapping, as well as ethnic and religious conflicts were the result of bad leadership in the state, and pledged to reverse the trends within a record time in office. Asake told the clerics that only LP has the family as its centrepiece as emphasised on its logo showing a father, mother and child. He said, as the party of the working class and the downtrodden, the people of the state would not regret voting LP. Imam Shugaba Muhammad, who spoke on behalf of other Islamic leaders, urged the candidate to keep to his promise, stressing the need for an open door policy. He lamented a situation where leaders get elected and shut the door behind them, adding: “If we see failure in your policy implementation, we shall express displeasure openly.”