• Says 2023 Election About Character
• Promises To Secure, Unite Nigerians The Presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi, yesterday, dismissed the claim by the candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu that he is a stingy politician. According to Obi, who led the Obi-Datti campaign train to Ondo state, being prudent in the management of public funds should not be termed as being stingy. Speaking during the presidential campaign rally of LP at the City Hall, Akure, Obi emphasised that the nation will be better off in his care as stingy man, stressing that he will be able to efficiently invest in education, health, economy and other sectors to develop the country. He said: Yes, they said I am stingy but we are not out to steal the nation’s wealth. All we want to do is to use the nation’s money for our people and development of this country. “They said that I’m stingy; we want stingy people now, so that we can keep and use your money to transform the country. In this upcoming election, don’t vote for anybody because of tribe but vote for someone that will move the country forward. “This election is about character and people we can trust. Everybody knows the schools my running mate and I attended. You all know our ages, our schools and everything about us “When I was the governor in Anambra, everybody knows what I did, all the works I did. When I left government, I left $150 million, everybody knows this; they know where I live, you can go and verify.” He said the country would be more secured with the LP at the helms of affairs, saying, “the entire Nigeria is not secured, people are living in suffering and hunger. We want to secure and unite Nigeria. We want to move Nigeria from consumption to production. “There would be no more schools strikes. We will support small businesses. No Nigerian will leave his or her community because of insecurity. We guarantee you that insecurity will stop. We want to fight corruption. We will make sure that we have electricity.” “We don’t want anybody to say that it is my turn; we want to change Nigeria for better. Our children will be in school, we don’t want people to run out of Nigeria again. We want to structure Nigeria for development. We want to build a better Nigeria, so go out and support us. Go and pick your PVCs and vote for Labour Party and make sure that they count the vote.” On his part, the National Chairman of the party, Julius Abure stated that the country is in comatose, and Nigerians must promptly rescue it at the polls, assuring that Obi has all it takes to pull the country out of its quagmire. The Southwest Coordinator of Obi-Datti Presidential campaign, Sola Ebiseni, maintained that it is the turn of the people of the Southeast region to produce the president, saying only a Southeast Presidency will guarantee the unity, stability, and oneness of the Nigerian state in 2023. According to him, Afenifere decided to throw its weight behind a Southeast candidate because the region has been marginalised. He explained that since the South South and Southwest have tasted power at the centre, the same should be accorded the Igbo-dominated Southeast. “How can you say rotation is between the North and South, and when it comes to the South, it would be South-West and South-South every time? Is South East not part of the South?”