Worried by the plight of airline operators amid harsh economic realities, Chairman United Nigeria Airlines (UNA), Prof. Obiora Okonkwo, has rallied the Federal Government behind a special funding window for the aviation sector. Okonkwo, at a retreat to commemorate the airline’s second anniversary, yesterday, said the sector is too crucial for economic revival, than to be left to its fate. His charge is akin to earlier calls by the Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON), seeking special intervention funds in the face of foreign exchange liquidity crisis and spike in the cost of aviation fuel, among other factors whose cost implication cannot be completely passed to consumers. Okonkwo said the special funding for operators became necessary given the sector’s essential duty and growing contribution to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). He said: “We are just asking for a special funding window of single-digit and easily accessible funds. We still believe that this government has done a lot for the aviation industry, though more needs to be done. We think that the bigger legacy that this government will leave for the aviation industry is to ensure that the operators survive. No operator should go under; rather, let there be new operators in the business of aviation,” he said. Okonkwo added that the indigenous airline operators have been very patriotic, contributing immensely to the growth of the nation’s GDP. “And if aviation is properly harnessed, it will be a great source of foreign exchange for the country, especially if the local operators could be empowered. This industry, we believe, remains a critical and essential industry that should be treated as such. “However, this industry cannot survive further at the regular commercial rates. We know that there are privileges given to sectors like agriculture and others. Aviation should be considered also,” he said. Chief Operating Officer and Executive Director of the airline, Osita Okonkwo, said further that the company’s strategy is to continue on the growth part. Okonkwo said despite challenges, the company survived, though “by the grace of God, support of the travelling public, and the regulators that kept fate in the company”. He said in 2023 and beyond, the airline would continue to improve its service to the travelling public and focus on its equipment to ensure an up to date fleet. “We have started already with Airbus320, which is already flying. More will join the fleet. We are expanding our destinations. We have the objective of having a footprint in every airport in Nigeria. We are about to start Jos and Benin and other towns in the North- East and North-West will follow. “We are going outside Nigeria too. We are moving regionally. We are going through the regulatory process now, and we have gotten our airline carrier’s permit. We have gotten designations to a number of countries, which will be announced soon,” he said. 