Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has hinted that talks with his political allies on the presidential candidate to support in the February 25 election will soon be concluded. Wike spoke at St. Martin’s Anglican Church, Omagwa town, venue of the flag-off of Local Government Campaign of Rivers State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ikwerre Council yesterday. This is contained in a statement by Special Assistant on Media to Wike, Kelvin Ebiri. He said Rivers people have been duly sensitised and told to vote for the PDP governorship, Senate, House of Representatives and state House of Assembly candidates. He said the beauty of the coming election is that it will leave no room for any form of electoral manipulation and intimidation from security personnel. The governor, urged the people to remain calm, saying when the final decision on the presidential candidate is taken, the Rivers electorate will be notified. “As we finish from here now, you’ll go home and start working towards the appropriate time when we will ring the bell. When you hear the bell, know that the decision has been taken.” He said the success of his administration is what the consolidation team, to be headed by the PDP governorship candidate, Siminialayi Fubara, will consolidate on. According to him, members of the consolidation team are men and women with capacity to continue good governance and will certainly not disappoint them. In his remarks, Fubara said he has been part of the Wike administration that has provided good governance and driven unequal infrastructural development agenda. The Director General of Rivers PDP Campaign Council, Felix Obuah, said Rivers people have witnessed good performance by Wike in office and that voting Fubara and other PDP candidates will ensure consolidation of the successes of Wike’s administration. Chairman, Rivers State Chairman of PDP, Desmond Akawor, who presented flags to the various candidates contesting various positions in the Rivers East Senatorial District, described governor Wike as a emancipator of the downtrodden.