Mr Nse Essien, a member of the Akwa Ibom House of Assembly (PDP-Onna Constituency) has freed 12 inmates in the Uyo Correctional Centre who could not meet their conditions. Essien made this known while performing the final kick-off of a football match between “Chelsea and Manchester United” at the Uyo Correctional Centre on Sunday.
He said that the 12 inmates regained their freedom after he paid N1.5 million to secure their bail.
According to him, he has been releasing inmates for over seven years as a member of the state assembly. “I have been celebrating this day with inmates, so far, in the past seven years, I have paid for 177 inmates to regain their freedom. ”Today, I am adding another 12 after paying N1.5 million, making a total of 189 inmates,” Essien said.
The lawmaker appreciated the sacrifices of workers in the centre and prayed that God Almighty would bless and reward them for their selfless services. He urged the inmates not to see their current condition as the end of the world, adding, ”rather, learn the lessons, get reformed, be better citizens and ambassadors of Nigeria when out of the centre.
“The correctional centre is a place for reformation and you don’t have to see it as the end of the world; rather see it as an avenue to amend your ways, learn some critical lessons and be better members of the society.
“I must appreciate the staffers of the centre for their professional conduct and I pray God to bless them for their sacrifices to humanity. ”You must be obedient to the constituted authority, pray hard and become good members of the society in future,” Essien advised. Earlier, Mr Ebereonwu Ogueru, the Assistant Comptroller of the Correctional Centre commended the contributions of the parliamentarian for sustainably being a compassionate father and friend. He said that the contributions of the lawmaker to the centre could not be underestimated. Ogueru said that the two-term House of Assembly member had also donated trophies to winners, including N50,000 cash prize for winner, N30,000 for runne up and 20,000 for third place finish.
He thanked the lawmaker for presenting cash and medal rewards to the top scorers, referees, best goalkeeper and most valuable player. 