• LAUTECH students declare support for him
• Gov, Teslim absent at BBC’s debate as Adelabu upbeat about the election Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde, yesterday, said that his administration would turn the five local councils in Ogbomoso zone into agro-industrial hub. Makinde, who made the promise during his separate meetings with the leadership of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and Muslim clerics in Ikoyi-Ile, Oriire Local Council of the state, said that his administration would explore the potentials of each of the councils. The governor said that his administration was determined to industrialise the state to provide employment opportunities for the youths.  He told the CAN leaders at First Baptist Church, Ikoyi-Ile, as part of his campaign tour of the council, that the state is progressing in economic emancipation. He added that the present administration had laid the necessary foundation for economic prosperity by connecting all the zones. The governor expressed confidence that infrastructure projects done by his government would stand the test of time because of the quality of work, while pledging that residents of the state would get more if he is re-elected as governor. Similarly, Makinde also met with the leadership of Ikoyi-Ile Muslim Community at the Ikoyi-Ile Central Mosque, where he charged the Muslim Ummah to work hand in hand and cooperate with his government and also re-elect him to move the state from poverty to prosperity. The governor said that their demands would be addressed in due course. The campaign train of the governor moved to Surulere and Ogo-Oluwa local councils where he (Makinde) promised to prioritise the welfare of traditional rulers and also revive the Oko Fruit Processing Factory to create more jobs for the teeming youths of the axis. He also told the people of the two councils how his administration was able to amicably resolve the sole ownership of LAUTECH, noting that he would solve the boundary issues with Kwara and Osun in the same manner. MEANWHILE, students of Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomoso, have lauded Makinde for his achievements in the institution, declaring support for his re-election. The students, who stated this during a walk in Ogbomoso zone of the state, appreciated the governor for securing the sole ownership of the institution, reducing school fees in the institution and cancelling the no fee, no examination policy, among others. IN another development, Makinde and the All Progressives Congress (APC) gubernatorial candidate in Oyo State, Teslim Folarin, were absent at the British Broadcasting Corporation (BCC) state governorship debate. The debate was held, yesterday, at Theophilus Ogunlesi Hall, opposite University Teaching Hospital (UCH), Yemetu, Ibadan. The gubernatorial candidates that attended the debate were Chief Adebayo Adelabu of the Accord Party (AP), Taofeek Akinwale (Labour Party) and Michael Lana (Social Democratic Party). The AP candidate, while addressing journalists, said that he was confident in emerging victorious at the 2023 governorship polls noting that with all the indices in his favour. He denied any coalition with other gubernatorial candidates. Also, Lana, in his address, promised to introduce community development and security agency to tackle the insecurity menace challenging the economy growth of the state if he is elected as the governor of the state.