Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Ali Pantami, has said Federal Government can leverage 5G technology to secure the country and develop the economy. He stated this as one of the companies that won the bid for 5G 3.5GHz spectrum licenses, Mafab Communications, rolled out network service in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Speaking at the launch in Abuja, yesterday, the minister observed that the technology comes with new benefits, such as low latency, very high quality broadband, faster network, and it allows real time communication. According to him, this holds many advantages for security institutions and could help them manage challenges more effectively. He said: “There are so many technologies, like artificial intelligence, that will help our security institutions, if all of them can leverage effectively on 5G. This is in addition to economic benefits, the same in our education sector. I do hope we will make use of this new technology to secure our country, to develop our economy, and at the same time, develop each and every other sector.” In his speech, the chairman of Mafab, Musbahu Bashir, described the rollout as the beginning of immense opportunities for the country, saying it represents Nigeria’s capabilities and infinite possibilities. According to him, “5G network will usher into this country a wide array of business opportunities, wherein various business outfits will expand their frontiers with operational ease and speed, especially in the fields of education, medical sciences, engineering, security, businesses like the banking sector, SMEs, smart cities, transportation, entertainment, which will not benefit only urban areas but also meet our long-term goal of ensuring that even people in rural areas and villages also enjoy benefits of this amazing technology.” Mafab’s spokesperson, Adebayo Onigbanjo, while unveiling the company’s new logo, explained: “As an operator born in the data age, Mafab will aim to serve our customers and the country by maximising the value of digital technology. While 5G brings a lot of excitement about fast downloads, low latency and high speeds, our promise is ubiquitous data for Nigerians.”