Download logo President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi met today with Advisor to the President for Urban Planning Major General Amir Sayed Ahmed, Head of the Engineering Authority of the Armed Forces, Major General Ahmed Al-Azazy, Head of the Financial Affairs Authority of the Armed Forces Major General Ahmed El-Shazly, and Assistant Director of road designs in the Armed Forces Engineering Authority Brigadier General Abdel Aziz El-Feki.  The Spokesman for the Egyptian Presidency said that the meeting discussed the projects carried out by the Engineering authority of the Armed Forces. In this context, the President was briefed on the developments of the Mokattam region, especially with regard to the efforts being made to make best use of the vacant plots of land. It was also added that efforts are also made to establish a market complex, develop the corniche, and raising the efficiency of facilities and the sewage network. The projects of the Engineering Authority for aiming to develop North Sinai, especially Arish Airport, were also presented. The meeting discussed as well the implementation status of the various components of this project, including waiting rooms, service buildings, and the airstrip. The status of some projects in the New Administrative Capital was also reviewed, especially the facilities and services there as well as the Diplomatic Quarter which will include the accredited embassies of foreign countries and the headquarters of international and regional organizations. The President directed the relevant authorities to increase the number of hospitals in the New Administrative Capital and expedite the implementation of the Diplomatic Quarter, along with other neighborhoods in the New Administrative Capital, in an integrated manner. The Spokesman added that the meeting also discussed the developments in the road network system nationwide, especially the 26th of July axis and the surrounding Sphinx area, and Tahya Misr Bridge, among others. The meeting also followed up on the efforts of the Engineering Authority to bring in the latest construction and engineering equipment and machinery that would help speed up the implementation of the national projects across Egypt. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of The Presidency, The Arab Republic of Egypt.