• Raps Okowa for frittering away state’s resources Deputy Senate President and Delta APC Governorship candidate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, has unfurled a list of actionable development projects for the Okpe people of Sapele and Okpe LGAs of Delta state, with a pledge to transform the area and make life better. Senator Omo-Agege, Tuesday, January 17, at the APC ward to ward campaign stops in Amukpe, Sapele, Ugborhen and Deghele, said he would remedy the deprivations they suffered under Delta governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa. He specifically accused the State House of Assembly Speaker and Delta Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) gubernatorial candidate, Sheriff Oborevwori, of cowering in a corner while Governor Okowa rode roughshod over his people. “Governor Okowa set up three universities in one day. Two in Delta North and one in Delta South. It was Sheriff that as speaker, approved those universities. But he didn’t have the guts to ask Okowa, where’s the one for my people in Delta Central. Is it wrong for Okpe to have a university?” he questioned. Senator Omo-Agege pledged that the proposed Okpe Polytechnic, initiated by Rt. Hon. Monday Igbuya while he was Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly, will be established when he becomes governor. He undertook to upgrade the Sapele Technical College to a full fledged polytechnic, while assuring that the Sapele port, along with Warri, Burutu, and Koko ports, will be reactivated as soon as he becomes governor, to provide job opportunities for the youths and boost the economy of the state. Senator Omo-Agege said he has given directives to light up the streets of Ugbukulusu, Okuovu, Ugborhen, and adjoining towns and communities that have yet to receive solar street lights. He also directed that brand new power transformers be delivered to the communities that require them on that axis. The APC gubernatorial candidate said he will immediately contact the NDDC to work out the construction of the road connecting Ugborhen to Amukpe. Senator Omo-Agege described the “prosperity for all Deltans” slogan of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa as a farce, since it was only at the homes of the governor and his associates that there’s been any prosperity. He pointed out that all existing critical infrastructure in Delta State was developed by the former governor, James Ibori, and that nothing significant has so far been put in place by Governor Okowa in seven years and seven months. “No new roads in Delta State except patchworks; all critical infrastructure was developed by Ibori, nothing significant has so far been done by Okowa in spite of his inability to explain how the N4.2 trillion he has received as governor since 2015 was spent.” Senator Omo-Agege thanked the Okpe people for their love and support, saying “I am here to serve you. I want to make sure you get your equitable share of resources of Delta State.” On behalf of the party, he presented the flags to Chief Ede Dafinone, Hon. Henry Baro, and Hon. Moses Ogodo, candidates for the Delta Central Senatorial District, Okpe/Sapele/Uvwie Federal Constituency, and Okpe Constituency of the Delta State House of Assembly respectively. “On behalf of the State Chairman of the party, Elder Omeni Sobotie, I give you these flags to sweep away the PDP so there would be a new narrative in Okpe kingdom.” At Ugborhen, Chief Dafinone restated that all the candidates of the APC were credible, assuring that Omo-Agege as governor will deliver dividends of democracy. Hon. Baro called for 100 percent support for all candidates of the APC, assuring that the Okpe people will benefit tremendously from APC led federal and state governments. 