The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), yesterday, alleged an influx and camping of Fulani terrorists into Nenwe Community, Enugu State, in what it called, “another planned invasion of the community.” It called on the state governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, to rise to the defence of the people. In a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, IPOB insisted that the governor must understand that protection of life and property of his people “is the most important mandate he received as Chief Executive of the state. “As Governor Ortom of Benue State has been defending his state against these terrorists, their next target is Enugu. “The state governor must, therefore, shun politics and rise in defence of his people before it’s too late. “The Eastern Security Network (ESN), under IPOB, is always ready and willing to work with anybody, who is interested in defending our land. “IPOB has been the only resistance to the agenda of Fulanisation of South East, and it shall continue to do so until Biafra is separated from these terrorists and killer herdsmen. The statement noted that Ugwuanyi must brace up and stop these marauders or history would not be kind to him. “He can see what is happening in Eha-Amufu Community and can’t wait for the same to repeat in other communities,” the statement added. It also said that the governor must realise that giving logistics and financial support to the compromised Nigeria’s security agencies, who seem to be providing cover to the Fulani terrorists, cannot help. Powerful noted that the killer herdsmen and jihadists that entered into Nnewe Community are too many, and are conducting alarming raids in land. He said: “We call on stakeholders in the state and other states to organise youth volunteers in anyway necessary to defend their communities and their land from these terrorists, who have come to kill, destroy, displace and take over our land. “IPOB won’t stay and watch our people butchered like animals in their home land. For two years, ESN operatives and IPOB volunteers have been giving their lives in defense of our people and land. We shall continue to do so, but need the co-operation of our people to prevail. “ESN can’t be everywhere across the region. That is why youth volunteers should be organised and mobilised to defend our land.” 