The people of Enugu East Senatorial District, Enugu State have endorsed the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, Dr. Peter Ndubuisi Mbah, as their sole candidate for the election in March 11. The All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains, led by former President of the Senate, Senator Ken Nnamani, represented by the immediate past chairman of the party in the state and presently, a member of the APC Presidential Campaign Council (PCC), Dr. Ben Nwoye, said their decision was borne out of their conviction about his character, manifesto, comportment, depth of heart, judicious temperament and ability Nwoye disclosed that the APC chieftains at their leadership meeting were of the view that “leadership of people in Enugu State should not be by party. The leader of Enugu State will be elected by the citizens of Enugu. Nkanu people have had their consensus to pick you (Mbah). I am an APC member, but my group and I will vote for you.” The former state chairman of the APC said as a member of the Contact and Mobilisation Committee of the APC PCC, they would turn everything to Mbah after supporting their party’s presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu in the February 25 election. “I am here in two capacities. I will talk in my capacity and I will also talk because our leader sent me here. He sent me here to represent him because we have looked at everything beyond your (Mbah’s) manifesto which some of the candidates still don’t have. We studied your manifesto, we studied your character; we studied your comportment; we studied the depth of your heart; we looked at your judicious temperament; your ability to lead and we concluded in that leadership meeting that leadership of people in Enugu State should not be by party.” Also, speaking, former governor of old Anambra State, Senator Jim Ifenayichukwu Nwobodo, expressed gratitude to Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi “for being a man of his words.” Senator Nwobodo assured the governor that the people of the district would join hands and campaign to ensure that he goes to the Senate in appreciation of his exemplary leadership role in the emergence of Mbah from the district as the PDP governorship candidate. 