Ogun ex-dep gov, Kashamu’s loyalists pledge support to gov
Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, yesterday, said that no society could be built on fake news but through well-researched and objective reportage by media practitioners. Abiodun, who gave the assertion while playing host to the management of PenPushing Media at the Presidential Lodge, Abeokuta, described fake news as an issue that should concern all. He said that his administration would continue to execute people-oriented projects that are equitable and fairly distributed across the state, adding that as a focused and business-minded administration, efforts would be geared towards meeting people’s needs and allow its works to do the speaking. Abiodun, who emphasised that though his administration might not make all roads motorable in his eight years tenure, said it would take a succession of focused, people-oriented and deliberate administrations to ensure that all infrastructural deficits are completely taken care of. He described media as the vital link to democracy as they provide the checks and balances needed for democracy to strive. Besides, he appreciated the  media outfit for being supportive of his administration and especially lauded the outfit for extending the hand of fellowship to the less privileged, calling on other corporate entities to take a cue and make meaningful impact on the life of the people. Earlier in her remarks, Chairman, Editorial Board, PenPushing Media, Mrs. Funke Fadugba, said the aim of the outfit was to counter fake journalism that is causing havoc in the society by ensuring that genuine news is out across to the public. MEANWHILE, a former deputy governor of the state and leader of the All Progressives Congress in Ijebu North Council, Segun Adesegun, has said that the party in the council is working to reorganise itself to give Abiodun the necessary support as the general elections approach. Adesegun, who stated this  when he led some former members of the late Senator Buruji Kashamu’s faction of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from the council to the governor in Abeokuta, said the loyalists of Kashamu had been yearning to join the ruling party  because of the confidence they have in the Abiodun-led administration. In his remarks, the Chairman, Council of Oloritun, Oke-Agbo, Chief Olu Azeez, who stated that they were fully committed towards the second term ambition of the governor and that of the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu, said that the success the current administration had been able to achieve across the length and breadth of the state, led them to make the decision to stand with the governor. Also, Adeleke Shittu, who noted that their decision to support the governor was borne out of ongoing development across the state, added that Ijebu North was solidly behind the governor.