The Nigerian Army has said that it will continue to promote sporting competitions as a means to upscale cordial relationship between the military and the public. It said through sports, commitment to improve civil military relationship is enhanced to the advantage of the people. The out-going General Officer Commanding (GOC) 3 Division of the Nigerian Army, Jos, and also Commander, Operation Safe Haven (OPSH), Maj.-Gen. Ibrahim Ali, stated this at the 3 Division Rhino maiden amateur golf tournament, which opened in Jos last weekend. General Ali is the Patron of Rhino golf and Country Club in Plateau State.
He noted that the event was the first of its kind since the establishment of the golf club, stressing that the competition was aimed at promoting the game of golf, bringing citizens closer to the military, making good friends, while offering opportunities to the participants for new business connections. Appreciating the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Faruq Yahaya, for always demonstrating uncommon sagacity to pilot the affairs of the army, he revealed that the golf course was recently upgraded to make it unique for both training and professional practice. While commissioning the newly built projects at the golf course, the special guest of honour and Governor of Plateau State, Simon Lalong, commended Ali for his leadership style and rapid infrastructure development at Rhino Golf and Country Club. Represented by the Plateau State Commissioner for Information, Dan Manja, the governor reaffirmed his support to security agencies and commended the military for gradually returning the state to its glory of Peace and tourism. Earlier, in his welcome address, the captain of Rhino Golf and Country Club, Jos, Colonel Haruna Bala, urged the participants to exhibit true spirit of sportsmanship and connection to new friends. Highlights of the event were the commissioning of a Practice Range, Gaddy Hut, Waiting Shade, as well as the Starter Hut and the Green Area. The event was attended by senior military officers both serving and retired, government officials, heads of other security agencies, captains of industries as well as directors and competitors from within and outside Jos. Major-General Ibrahim Ali is now redeployed to the North East as the Theatre Commander, while Major-General M.B. lbrahim, who is the outgoing Theatre Commander, is now deployed to Jos as the new GOC and Commander Operation Safe Haven (OPSH).