President Muhammadu Buhari has approved deployment of high technology to boost the insecurity fight in the South East. Governor Hope Uzodimma of Imo State made the disclosure, yesterday, after a meeting with the Nigerian leader at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. He had pleaded for the fillip to tame the menace.
Uzodimma said with the presidential approval, advanced surveillance equipment are to be delivered in no time to the region to enhance the expedition without collateral damage. The governor explained that his visit was also to thank the President for what he had done for the region, especially the recent conversion of the Federal Medical Centre, Owerri to a university teaching hospital for the Federal University of Technology, Owerri (FUTO) and upgrade of Alvan Ikoku College of Education to a federal university of education. His words:  “My visit, which is on behalf of the people, is also to thank him (Buhari) for the various support he gave to us during this period of security challenges and the support he has also given us in terms of various approvals. “The approval to convert Federal Medical Centre, Owerri to a university teaching hospital for the Federal University of Technology, Owerri and the approval that converted Alvan Ikoku College of Education to a federal university of education. “Only two weeks ago, Igbo that came home from Lagos and outside South East enjoyed benefit of the second Niger Bridge – something that is worthy of commendation. “I also appealed to him (President) for further support through technological deployment. We have agreed to do an advanced kind of security control in the South East.  And he has also given his approval. “And in a moment from now, we’ll be getting some surveillance equipment and modern technologies that would help us manage security and fight crime with little or no collateral damage to the environment (society).” On plan for Imo in the new year, Uzodimma stated: “Well, my people are enthusiastic and committed Nigerians, who believe in the unity of the country. We believe that for us to grow as a people, we need the support and cooperation of the Federal Government, and that is what I’ve always stood for. So, going forward, I know 2023 will be better than 2022. And the level of development we witnessed from 2020 to 2022 will be improved upon.” He went on: “And my people have seen a lot of things. In Imo State for instance, we got approval of Mr. President to partner with the Nigerian Navy to dredge Oguta and Orashi Rivers to open up the maritime space. Then, we equally go a naval base to check pipeline vandalism, crude oil theft and other forms of criminality prevalent at a time. Crime rate has tremendously reduced since the naval base was established.  So, I think we have hope for a better Nigeria.”