•Babalola Joins OBJ, Clark, Others To Endorse Obi
•Says Only Those Who Were Part Of Looting Nigeria Dry’ll Oppose Obi The Labour Party’s Presidential Candidate, Peter Obi, for the umpteenth time has urged every Nigerian youth and elders alike to strive hard to collect their Permanent Voter’s Card (PVC), saying without it, the yearnings of Nigerian youths and others, may not be realised. Obi, who spoke in a special broadcast via the social media, gave insight why collection of PVCs and voting in the forthcoming elections is critical to Nigeria and Nigerians. According to him, PVCs must be collected as it’s only with it that the process of taking back Nigeria and rebuilding it could be said to have begun. “This is a critical and existential election for Nigeria and all of us must endeavour to vote and we can only vote if we have our PVC,” he said. The LP flag bearer, one of the frontline candidates in the February 25, 2023 poll reminded Nigerians that the collection of the PVC ends on Sunday, January 15, 2023. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had opened the collection of PVCs at ward level yesterday, January 6, 2023 to end on 15, January 2023 after which the collection continues at the INEC offices at local government levels until January 22, 2023. Meanwhile Obi continues to receive the support and positive rating of prominent Nigerians after three revered elder statesmen, former President Olusegun Obasanjo, first Republic Minister of Information and the leader of the South-South people, Edwin K. Clark and the leader of the umbrella Yoruba Group, the Afenifere, Pa Ayo Adebanjo, endorsed him. Again, another foremost jurist and founder and Chancellor of Afe Babalola University, Ado Ekiti, Chief Afe Babalola (SAN) has said that Obi is the most qualified person to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari. Also, highly revered Northern Muslim Cleric, Sheikh Ahmad Gumi had also held similar view. According to Babalola, the only people opposed to Obi are those who participated in plunging the country into the state of underdevelopment it is at present. “Unless you are part of the old system that has brought us to where we are, there is no way you will oppose a young man like Mr. Peter Obi, an untainted, young, educated man with ideas from being the president of Nigeria,” he said Babalola, who will mark 60 years of his call to Bar as a lawyer this year, said he and Obi share a common passion in their love for quality education. “We have a common ground, and that common ground is that he will give education a rightful place in his administration. Unlike all of you, I never had a conventional education, I never went to secondary school, or university but due to determination and courage I endured. I studied privately through correspondence and obtained my A Level by correspondence, passed the entrance into university by correspondence. “But for education, I would not be where I am today and that is why by the grace of God after a successful practice, I am what I am today. I will celebrate 60 years of my call to Bar this year and by the grace of God, Peter Obi will be there. He is the most qualified to lead this country.” 