The quest by the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate in Enugu State, Dr. Peter Mbah, to win the March governorship election received a massive boost yesterday as stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) led by former Senate President, Ken Nnamani endorsed his aspiration. Nnamani, who was represented at the Enugu East Senatorial District Endorsement rally for Peter Mbah held at Okpara Square by the immediate past state chairman of the APC, Dr. Ben Nwoye, told the cheering crowd that their decision followed Mbah’s track record of service. “We have looked at everything including the character of Peter Mbah, his state of heart, his profile and blueprint for the state and we concluded that leadership of Enugu State should not be by party but by capacity. I am of APC but we will vote for him. After the February 25 presidential election, we will all move our support and vote to Peter Mbah to ensure that he becomes the next governor of our state,” he said. Nwoye, who addressed Mbah severally during his speech as “incoming governor”, stated that on his own, though being a member of the Contact and Mobilisation Committee of Bola Tinubu Campaign Organisation, he would continue to stand by Mbah as “a true son of Nkanu land” and praised Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for the support that translated to the emergence of Mbah at the primary of the PDP. Speaking, Governor Ugwuanyi, who congratulated Mbah for “earning the support of your people”, urged the people to obtain their voter’s card and vote for the PDP in the elections. He said he had always believed in dialogue to settle political differences, saying that was what led to the emergence of Mbah. Former governor of old Anambra State, Jim Nwobodo, while thanking Ugwuanyi for fulfilling his promise of returning power to Enugu East, assured him of the support of the people in all his endeavours. He said the entire Enugu East had endorsed Mbah as their sole candidate in the election and asked contestants from the zone in other parties to support him.