The task of ensuring peace and safety in Lagos State is one that calls for collaborative efforts between the youth and Police in the state. The Commissioner for Youth and Social Development, Mr. Olusegun Dawodu made this known at the grand finale of the second edition of the Police-Youth Dialogue organised by the ministry. Dawodu said that the dialogue plans to mend, build trust, heal and strengthen the relationship between law enforcement personnel and young people in the state. “It is also designed as a tangible tool to bring attention to issues causing tension between law enforcement officers and the youth, thereby building a model towards restorative justice rather than punitive discipline.” The Commissioner further stated the programme has shown that the state is committed to a lawful, peaceful and safe Lagos. On her part, the Permanent Secretary, Pharm (Mrs) Toyin Oke-Osanyintolu said that the dialogue is an intellectual gathering of young leaders in Lagos State, aside being a platform where burning issues are discussed extensively in order to bridge communication gap between the Lagos State Police Command and the youth resident in the state. Lagos State Police Commissioner, Mr Abiodun Alabi, represented by the State Police Public Relations Officer, Mr Benjamin Hundeyin, said that the misunderstanding between the Police and youth is as a result of impatience between the former and the latter, which could be resolved through dialogue. Alabi pledged the full support of the Nigeria Police Force to the programme, describing the forum a laudable one. The Resident Electoral Commissioner, Lagos State, Mr Segun Agbaje, represented by Mrs. Adenike Datashe, in his presentation on “The Role of the Youth in Ensuring a Violence-Free 2023 Elections: Peaceful Voting Culture “enlightened the youths on the dos and don’ts of credible elections. In his remarks, Consular General Spanish Embassy, Daniel Lasada Miller, commended Lagos State government for initiating the forum, which he described as “very timely”considering the electioneering period. Miller while noting the role of youth in the prevention and resolution of crisis, stated that all hands must be on deck in encouraging the youth to ensure a safer society. In their goodwill messages, Chairman, National Youth Council of Nigeria (Lagos State Chapter), Mr. Lekan Biliaminu Oba and Lagos State Youth Ambassador, Miss Zainab Ayomikun Aderounmu, commended the state government for the initiative which they said would help bridge the communication gap between the youth and Police in the state. 