Police in Barcelona has detained Brazilian international Dani Alves and taken him to court for questioning after he was accused of sexually assaulting a woman in a local nightclub. The footballer acknowledged that the alleged sex crime took place late last month at the famous city nightclub Sutton. But after a court confirmed it had begun a formal investigation, he adamantly emphasised, “I don’t know who this lady is. I don’t know her name, I don’t know her, I’ve never seen her in my life.” The former Barcelona defender, who is currently playing for UNAM Pumas in Mexico, was detained today at an undisclosed location and taken to a police station in the Les Corts neighbourhood to give a statement. According to reports, the 39-year-old, who last month made history by becoming the oldest Brazilian to play in a FIFA World Cup, had lawyers arrange his police interview. According to the reports, he would also be taken into custody and fingerprinted as part of standard procedure before being questioned and brought before the court overseeing the alleged sex assault for additional questioning. “A man accused of an indecent assault at a nightclub in Barcelona late last year has been arrested,’ a spokesman for the local Mossos D’Esquadra confirmed. “He has now been taken to court after making a statement to police. It will be up to the court now to decide what measures to take.” Ten days ago, a court representative confirmed, “Barcelona Court of Instruction Number 15 has opened proceedings over an alleged crime of sexual assault after a woman complained about a football player. The footballer and the woman have not yet been deposed in court, the investigating magistrate’s spokesman confirmed. This week, it became known that Alves had flown to Spain from Mexico with the club’s approval after the mother of his Tenerife-born model wife Joana Sanz passed away. Two days after the initial reports of an alleged sex assault involving Alves appeared in the reputable Spanish daily ABC, a 47-second toilet claim was made public.