After an exciting round of mid-week games, the FA Cup returns with even more interesting fixtures this weekend. Football never stops. Whether it is the Premier League, La Liga, Champions League, or international games, there is almost always some action to watch on DStv. Here are some fixtures for this weekend. Liverpool vs Wolves
The defending champions, Liverpool, will go against Wolves for the third-round clash at Anfield today. The new Wolves’ head coach, Julen Lopetegui, was frustrated after Liverpool got an extra two days to prepare for the third-round encounter at Anfield, while Wolves fought out a 1-1 draw with Aston Villa on Wednesday night. Jurgen Klopp’s Liverpool lost at Brentford 48 hours earlier. This match will hold today, at 9:00 pm local time on DSTV SuperSport Premier League (Ch. 203). Tottenham vs Portsmouth
Tottenham will host Portsmouth in the FA Cup third round this afternoon in a bid to end their 15-year trophy drought. Reigniting their top-four charge with a bang, Tottenham is still outside the Champions League places in fifth – two points behind Manchester United. However, the Red Devils team has played one game more than Tottenham. An elusive piece of silverware will be on the menu if Conte’s side can now make waves in the FA Cup. The match will hold at 1:30 pm local time on DSTV SuperSport Premier League (Ch. 203) Man City vs Chelsea
Chelsea, who lost 1-0 to Manchester City in the Premier League on Thursday night, will travel to the Etihad Stadium on Sunday for their FA Cup third-round tie. Chelsea-Manchester City matches have often been breathtaking over the years, most especially in recent ones. No rival has secured more wins against the Citizens in the Premier League era than Chelsea’s 27. Equally, as a coach, Pep Guardiola has not lost to any club more than the Londoners (eight times). The match will hold on Sunday at 5:30 pm local time on DSTV SuperSport Premier League (Ch. 203) Aston Villa vs Stevenage
Aston Villa welcomes League Two Stevenage to Villa Park on Sunday afternoon in the third round of this season’s FA Cup. The hosts, who are now under the stewardship of Unai Emery, currently sit 11th in the Premier League standings, accumulating 10 points from their last five matches. This season, Stevenage has proven excellent in League Two, catching people by surprise. This clash on Sunday afternoon at Villa Park may be a superb outing for Stevenage or Aston Villa fans. This match will be on DStv on Super Sport Football Plus (Ch. 202) by 5:30 pm. 