Perusing Nigeria Twitter space on Monday, 16th of January 2023, I stumbled on a pinned tweet by The Guardian Nigeria and it was a video which celebrated Mr. Musbaudeen Femi Adebesin-Kuti. I was shocked to discover that Mr Femi whose nickname was Eshin was no more. As my thoughts and fingers try to find the right words, I remember the various times we encountered each other in Lagos, Nigeria. Mr Femi was that media personality who you would see quite early at public functions with his cameras and gear equipment, all ready to roll. If you didn’t see him early at that event and you saw him later on, Mr. Femi was probably at another event where he had to take pictures. Mr. Femi was that photojournalist you would see at every nook and cranny during Social Media Week taking official pictures for The Guardian Nigeria. I remember several times when we bopped into each other at some public and private gatherings, we would always chorus, “You are also here.” You would see him always busy, taking pictures; walking to the extremes of the halls or event centres, looking for the right picture to capture. And due to the fact that I knew he was a veteran photojournalist who had covered numerous sporting competitions within Nigeria, Africa and outside the African Continent, I always made it an obligation to send him links related photojournalism opportunities and fellowships etc. The Guardian piece published on Saturday, January 7, 2023 and titled; “Flurry of tributes as ace photojournalist, Femi Adebesin-Kuti passes on at 57” was a fitting tribute. Born on Wednesday, September 29, 1965, The Guardian Nigeria tribute with excerpts below; stated that; Adebesin-Kuti, a bright and bubbly personality was until his demise, a thoroughbred professional whose imprimatur would remain indelible in the annals of photojournalism in the country. For well over two decades, the seasoned photojournalist passionately practised his trade dutifully, displaying immense mastery of the art of photography, and mentoring a groundswell in the process. His wide chest of awards and accolades notwithstanding, Adebesin-Kuti, day in, and day out took his job seriously and kept on reinventing himself in his chosen craft while travelling the world with it. His coverage of three FIFA World Cup tournaments, and five Africa Cup of Nations championships, lends credence to this. Furthermore, the dexterity, pride, and confidence that he exuded on the job endeared him to many across age divides, and professional lines, even as it also won the profession more converts. Expectedly, the photojournalist’s departure has elicited a flurry of remarks from all and sundry, many of whom described him as a thoroughbred professional who discharged his duties diligently, and conscientiously, and who would be dearly missed. Dolapo Aina wrote from Kigali, Rwanda. 