Victor Osimhen has quickly established himself as one of the top players in Serie A, and one of the hottest properties in world football and he continues to dominant transfer rumours. It is no coincidence that Napoli are currently dominating in Italy with Osimhen also starring. The side are edging towards the title, and currently boast a sizeable lead over giants like Juventus, AC Milan and Inter Milan. The number nine has continued to score goals at regular intervals, and now leads the line for Napoli across competitions. After playing 14 matches, Osimhen has managed to score 12 times and recorded three assists, with the striker the top scorer in Italy. Perhaps his most important goals came in Napoli’s 5-1 win over title rivals Juventus. Osimhen scored the opening goal which ultimately saw the floodgates open, before he then netted the fourth goal to truly take the game beyond Juve. The flying forward can blend some extreme pace with the ability to finish from the most acute of angles when put through on goal. He is also a fairly powerful player, meaning he can hold his own when trying to take the ball through the middle. These attributes are just some of the reasons why Osimhen would likely excel in the Premier League. The transfer betting markets continue to link him with a move to England. England’s top league boasts some incredibly powerful and physical defenders, but that does not mean that quick and nimble players cannot star. Indeed, some of the best players in the league right now are those that are not gifted with raw power. This blend of serious pace, close touch dribbling and power would make him a viable option up front for many sides. Modern football provides so many situations in which any or all of pace, power, trickery and intelligence are needed. Osimhen ticks all of these boxes. However, the problem that players coming into the Premier League face is expectation and a lack of time to settle in the league. A player like Erling Haaland has proved an anomaly in the league for a number of reasons, but the fact he has settled and scored so many goals so quickly is unheard of. Osimhen would not be expected to arrive and immediately score 20 goals in a season, but if his performances were not at an expected level during the campaign, then many would question whether he was worth the money. This is the problem in the Premier League. Many players dream of switching Italy, Spain, Germany or France for the top league in England, but the dream can quickly turn into a nightmare. This is especially true if a player comes with a big price tag and a penchant for scoring, only for them to struggle. At the time of writing, Osimhen has so far scored 36 goals in 65 appearances for Napoli at just over one goal every two games. If he can hit similar numbers in the Premier League, then he will be seen as a success. However, will he be given the time to really settle in the league? If the forward can carry forward his performances in Italy into the Premier League, then he will likely be a success.   