• Says peace crucial to ensure rapid progress
• Cleric urges FG to mop up weapons in North to end terrorism The Catholic Archbishop of Lagos, Most Rev. Alfred Adewale Martins, has urged Nigerians to seek divine guidance in the quest for peace in 2023 to ensure that the New Year is free from chaos and anarchy. According to him, peace remains crucial and inevitable if the country hopes to reclaim its once enviable position as one of the most peaceful and also one of the fastest developing economies in the world. In a homily delivered at the 2023 New Year Mass, which was also used to celebrate the 56th World Day of Peace held at the Holy Cross Cathedral, Lagos, the Prelate charged all Nigerians to play active roles in the forthcoming general elections by ensuring that they vote in only God-fearing leaders who are capable of leading the country towards the path of prosperity. Archbishop Martins, who noted that what the country needs now are God-fearing leaders who will wipe away the tears of the citizens, assured the people that there was nothing too difficult for God to do as He can turn around seemingly hopeless situations for good. He, therefore, charged leaders of various political parties to prevail on their supporters to adhere strictly to the provisions of the newly-amended Electoral Act and avoid indulging in electoral malpractices during the forthcoming elections. Martins, while condemning the recent shooting of Mrs. Bolanle Raheem by a police officer, said it was very sad that the police officer not only killed the deceased but also two of her unborn babies. SIMILARLY, a cleric from Christ Apostolic Church (CAC), Arogungbogunmi International, Prophet Richard Kolawole,  urged the Federal Government to wage war against proliferation of illegal weapons in the North to tackle terrorism. Kolawole spoke, at the weekend, during the opening of the Freedom Festival 2023 with the theme, “Mighty one with mighty hand,’ at the Olomi, Olunde, Ibadan, Oyo State headquarters of the church. According to him, some terror groups and some overzealous politicians are denigrating the integrity of the country and drawing back its wheel of progress. He said: “Some elements are waiting to set the nation on fire if their party fails to win the 2023 presidential election. We have to pray fervently for God to judge those who are determined to cause pandemonium. “The people of God must be very prayerful.”