A Chinese national, Geng Quangrong facing a culpable homicide on the murder of Ummukulsum Sani, yesterday revealed how he charge huge fortune on his late girlfriend and family prior to incident that led to her death. Kano State government is prosecuting the suspect for killing 24-year-old lady who was said to have been stabbed to death by Quangrong at the deceased’s Janbulo Quarters, Kano, after altercation. At the resumption of matter before Justice Sanusi Ado Ma’aji of Kano High court, the accused told the court how the late Ummukulsum allegedly broke his heart twice on a failed marriage promise. Quangrong told the court that before and after he was jilted twice by the deceased, he transferred N60 million to her GTbank account no. 0246116023, for personal use, besides N18 million he gave her to run a business and another N10 million he graciously offered her to buy a car upon her demand. Quangrong spoke when his lawyer, Mohammad Danazimi opened a defence revealing how his late girlfriend compelled him to convert to Islam after he made a down payment of N2 million to the Imam. He added that as soon as he converted, he also perfected all monetary demands by the family on the proposed traditional wedding, including 214 pieces of textile materials and several cartoons of biscuits and sweets. Those items, he said were exclusive of another N700,000 the late Ummukulsum directed him to give cash as gift for her parents when both visited Sokoto state to seek permission and approval of the marriage. According to Quangrong, “ Ummukulsum got my phone contact from a friend and told me she loved me and she would be willing to marry me by God grace. At that time in June 2020, I was residing in Asaba in Delta State. But she insisted I should relocate to Kano, which I accepted and relocated in July. “As an international trader, I started business partnership with BBY textile in Kwari market, Kano. From that moment on there was nothing she requested of me that I refused her, whether financial and material, because she had promised to marry me. “In February, 2022, she suddenly brok her promise and got married to another man and relocated to Abuja. I felt so disappointed and heart broken, but I made up my mind to move on because I know life must continue. Yet she never stopped calling and sending text messages. But I later asked her to stop because I felt it is morally wrong since we were no longer in a relationship. “But around March 2022, she called one fateful day to seek forgiveness over her decision to abandon me. She told me she was no longer interested in the Abuja marriage and had already divorced the man and now she wanted us to renew our relationship. I accepted her apologies on the grand that she will never cheat on me or break her marriage promise again”. “At some point, she requested for N18 million to start doing business, which I sent. Sooner she asked for N4 million to buy house she could let out for rent. I gladly gave her the money. At another time, she demanded me to buy her a car at the cost of N10 million and graciously, I gave her the amount.” “She also requested for N6 million to buy materials for her graduation which I never hesitate to give. At that time, she was undergoing her NYSC in Sokoto State. For that event, she invited more than 20 members of her family and friends. “Any time there was holiday, like Salah festival, wedding ceremony and other social occasions, she will ask me to buy her cloths, gifts and other items. I never refused her requests. Incidentally, I realised all these monies she had been collecting from me were being used to buy landed property in Abuja and she even started developing the land since 2021”. Before Barrister Danazimi opened his defence, he had cross-examined the mother of the victim, and two other witnesses, including the Chief Medical Officer of Murtala Muhammad Specialist Hospital, Dr. Hawa Ibrahim who told the court she was not on duty on September 16, 2022 when the unfortunate incident occurred. The defence counsel had challenged the credibility of the medical report brought before the court after 90 days of the incident. Although, the defense counsel did not query the authenticity of the medical report, he told journalists after that it was not of essence especially since the CMO had revealed she was not on duty when the case was brought to the hospital. Justice Ma’aji adjourned the matter to today for continuation of hearing on the defence.