• Says no worker sacked in 44 months
• Bode George’s supporters pledge support for Atiku, Makinde’s victory
• Oyo PDP celebrates gov over Silverbird, Vanguard awards, ‘Aare Atayese’ title Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, yesterday, said that his administration had prioritised workers’ welfare in the last 44 months, adding that he has ensured no worker was sacked so far. The governor, who stated this during the 2023 Inter-faith Service, held at the Governor’s Office Secretariat, Agodi, Ibadan, said that he had remained faithful to his promise to uphold workers’ welfare. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, stated that the governor also ordered the immediate payment of two months salary deductions to the workers. Makinde, who said he had also ensured that no worker has been unjustly dismissed from work, added that his administration is built on fairness, equity and justice. According to him, his administration has employed a good number of health workers as well as 5,000 teachers, adding that he will continue to prioritise the welfare of the workers. The governor, while speaking on the salary structure of Oyo State House of Assembly workers, said that his administration would find means of paying the Consolidated Legislative Salary Structure (CONLESS) within the resources available. Earlier, the Head of Service, Alhaja Ololade Agboola, while bidding farewell to the state workers, having served for over 34 years, urged the state civil and public servants to co-operate with her successor for a resounding progress. MEANWHILE, the ambitions of the presidential and gubernatorial standard-bearers of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar and Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde, at the weekend, received a boost as members of Chief Bode George Group in the state declared their total support for the duo. Leader of the group, Muideen Ajakaye, who disclosed this at the ninth-year anniversary of the group in Ibadan, said that the endorsement of Atiku and Makinde was based on their tract records as seasoned administrators and politicians. Ajakaye maintained that members of the group in all the 33 local councils would work assiduously at ensuring the successes of Abubakar and Makinde at the polls. ALSO, the Oyo State chapter of the PDP, yesterday, said that Makinde had become a monumental success within the political landscape in the state and nation with the double awards bagged as well as a chieftaincy title alongside his wife. In a statement by its Publicity Secretary, Akeem Olatunji, the party described Makinde as a friend of the masses whose success story in governance has made him a household name in the Nigerian political space. Makinde recently bagged Silverbird Television Governor of the Year and Vanguard Governor of the Year awards, and also at the weekend with his wife, Tamunominini, were bestowed with chieftaincy titles of Aare and Yeye Atayese respectively in recognition of the governor delivering dividends of democracy to the people. The party described the awards and chieftaincy titles as well-deserved, saying that it will spur the governor to do more in his second term in office when re-elected. HOWEVER, a group, the Progressive Students Vanguard, has warned Makinde to desist from forcing students of tertiary institutions in the state to campaign for him through the ‘Walk For Seyi’ movement. The group, which gave the warning in a statement by its Coordinator, Ajadi Isaac, described the move as an indication that the Makinde-led administration has no regard for safety of students. “It has come to our notice that the Oyo State government under the leadership of Seyi Makinde has been forcing the Students Union Government (SUG) presidents of various institutions in Oyo State to do a kind of walk cum rally for his re-election. This is not only ridiculous and embarrassing but also exposing the life of the students to danger.” 