Police kill terrorist in Katsina, rescue perm sec in Plateau Armed bandits have abducted 63 persons from three communities of Pandogari district in Rafi Local Council of Niger State. Findings by The Guardian revealed that 41 victims were kidnapped in Durmin village, 14 from Jarmiya and eight from Pandogari. A resident, who pleaded anonymity, explained that the three villages are less than 10 kilometres from a camp of Joint Security Task Force in the state. It was further gathered that the bandits stormed the communities few hours after the joint security task force rescued 13 victims from kidnappers’ den. A SUSPECTED terrorist has been killed, while two policemen sustained injuries during a gun duel along the Katsina-Jibia Road, Katsina State, yesterday. Armed with sophisticated weapons, the terrorists attacked a police station along Magama-Hirji by about 4.30a.m. The gunfight that ensued saw one of the terrorists killed, while his weapon and some unspecified amount of cash were recovered.  But the incident saw two policemen sustain injuries and were reportedly rushed to Jibia General Hospital for treatment. Chairman of the local council, Bashir Maita, was said to have visited the affected policemen at the hospital, sympathised with them and paid their treatment bills. The Katsina-Jibia road, the major route linking the state to Niger Republic, is notorious for terrorists attacks on hapless motorists and security check points. Spokesperson for the police command, SP Gambo Isah, confirmed the incident. SIMILARLY, Plateau State Police Command has rescued the Permanent Secretary, Plateau State Ministry of Works, Alexander Plangnan from kidnappers.
According to a statement by the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Alfred Alabo, a distress call was received from a resident of State Low-cost, Jos South Local Council, on January 1, 2023 about 9.30p.m. that the Permanent Secretary of Plateau State Ministry of Works, Alexander Plangnan, was kidnapped in his official Hilux vehicle at the gate of his residence by four gunmen. He stated: “Immediately the report was received, the scene of the ugly incident was visited by the Divisional Police Officer (DPO), Rantya, SP Ayuba Iliya, and his team. Investigation was intensified. Through the combined efforts of Rantya and Jengre police divisions as well as the Anti-Kidnapping Unit, the victim was rescued and his vehicle recovered at Mistali village of Bassa Local Council about 2340hrs while the kidnappers fled.” The Commissioner of Police, Bartholomew Onyeka, used the opportunity to call on all  well-meaning Plateau residents to always avail the police and other security operatives with timely and useful information to nip crimes in the bud and improve security in the state. 