• Minister endorses programme’s vision Organisers of the yearly Sportsville Recognition Award have announced partnership deals with some reputable organisations, including BRilFm, Completesports newspapers and Adna Hotels. Sportsville Recognition Award is billed for February 4, 2023 at the Lagos Country Club, Ikeja. Disclosing the new alliances, yesterday, Chief Executive Officer of Sportsville, Frank Ilaboya, said: “I am really excited with this partnership.
“You will agree with me that these are reputable organisations in their own right. Complete Sports, like Brila 88.8Fm, are the foremost and most respected organisations in the media industry, just as Adna Hotel is top- rated in the hospitality industry.
“So, their partnership means so much to us at this point in time when the award is getting rave reviews nationwide.
“We ‘re extremely grateful to the management of these great organisations for teaming up with us to celebrate this year’s awardees,” Ilaboya added. Over 16 personalities and corporate concerns will be recognised during the award ceremony. Sports Minister, Sunday Dare, and the Deputy Governor of Edo State, Philip Shaibu, will be the Chairman and Special Guest of Honour respectively at the event. Meanwhile, Dare has commended the organisers for maintaining its credibility and also creating a forum to celebrate those at the forefront of sports development in the nation. According to the Minister, recognition of this nature will spur more Nigerians to do more for the country. Dare, a recipient of the prestigious award last year, has promised to grace the ceremony with the full complement of his top management staff. He said: “Be rest assured that I will be there in person to be part of this timely and noteworthy event. “The award aligns with my vision for sports development in Nigeria by encouraging individuals and corporate organisations to join hands with government to take our sports to the desired height as government alone cannot do it. “You can see how our involvement of individuals and companies through the Adopt An Athlete Initiative is yielding positive results.” 