For inclusive general elections this year, International Press Centre (IPC), will tomorrow, convene a stakeholders’ roundtable to present findings from its ongoing media monitoring.
In a statement, yesterday, the organisation’s Executive Director, Lanre Arogundade, noted that the exercise was pivotal to determining the extent to which the polls could be adjudged comprehensive. The event, he said, would feature discussions on findings of the monitoring in October and November 2022, as well as presentation of the revised Nigerian Media Code of Election Coverage. The convergence, which Arogundade said would attract stakeholders from the media, civil society, academia, regulatory bodies and other relevant organisations, “will present the opportunity for the media monitoring report to be assessed.” Certain that the exercise would assist in “strengthening the media for fair, accurate, ethical and inclusive coverage of the electoral processes and elections in Nigeria,” the media monitoring, as disclosed by him, “is one of the activities being implemented by IPC under an European Union (EU)-funded project.” He submitted that IPC “will also present a performance scorecard by the monitored media based on their promotion of inclusive issues in their coverage and reportage of the electoral processes and elections, particularly in line with stipulations of the Media Code of Election Coverage.” The newspapers to be monitored are: The Guardian, The Punch, Daily Sun, Vanguard, ThisDay, Nigerian Tribune, The Nation, Leadership, Daily Trust and Daily Independent. Online media included in the exercise are: The Cable, Premium Times, Eagle Online, RealNews and The Authority. Also on the list are the “news portal (website) and twitter handles of Nigeria’s election management body, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).” Optimistic that the project would be successful, Arogundade added: “Overall goal of the media component under EUSDGN II, which IPC is the lead partner, is to support consolidation of democracy in Nigeria with the media helping to facilitate the key ingredient of credible elections through engagement and professionalism in coverage and reportage of the electoral processes.”