The Nigeria Nation is indeed at a crossroad and never before have we had it so colourful. Every Nigerian at home and abroad feel it so bad one way or another. But for most of us, it does seem that there is very little we can do to improve things. This is because the path to the much needed transformation is riddled with immense difficulties with near impossibilities some will say. We have been through different developmental processes but have generally been so slow and sometimes retrogressive. At 62 years, we have passed middle ages in any life, including that of any independent nation.
 
The entity we call our Nigeria is in reality made up of different nation states. As we all know, there are different nations in Northern and Southern regions of Nigeria. These are subsumed by the quest and desire for one united free and fair nation. We have a federal republic but in reality, the federating units are majorly dependent on the centre which holds enormous powers. This has led to ever subsisting struggle. One that has brought in agitations, intimidations, marginalization and control. These are the very factors that tear apart the desired unity and progress of the country.
 
Nigeria as we have it today has a huge land area of 923,768 square kilometre, with Niger and Borno states leading with over 70,000 sq km each. This is a good fraction of the land mass of the 2nd largest and 2nd most populous continent on planet earth. It is blessed by its prime location in sub-Saharan West Africa, just North of the equator and just East of the Greenwich meridian. This has diverse good weather and geographic conditions stretching from the Sahel to Gulf of Guinea. There are vast reservoirs of natural resources beneath the land and into the sea. Apart from these, God in his infinite mercies have bestowed a population of 220,000,000 of talented and gifted males and females as Nigerians. We are fast growing and currently 7th most populous country in the world.
 
Incidentally, in the midst of these blessing, there are abject poverty, suffering and hardship in the land. There is loss of hope and those who could migrate are doing so in doves. The situation has not been different since soon after the excitement of independence. Sadly it has progressively worsen. Developmental indices have plummeted. How did we get this far and why? 