Download logo The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) welcomes a EUR 62.5 million contribution from the European Union (EU) to strengthen food security, nutrition, and resilience of 971,000 people in nine conflict-affected regions of Mali.  With this funding, WFP in collaboration with the Government of Mali, will implement two multi-year projects targeting families and communities severely affected by persistent conflicts, climatic shocks and rising food prices in Bandiagara, Douentza, Gao, Gourma-Rharous, Koulikoro, Mopti, San, Segou and Timbuktu. Communities in Central Mali will receive conditional food and nutritional assistance as part of the five -year Resilience and Sustainable Development Programme while taking part in resilience-building activities, helping create and rehabilitate community assets to improve access to basic services, such as water, community gardens, roads, stone barriers, wells, and water dams. “WFP has been facing increased challenges in supporting families across Mali because of socio-economic pressures on livelihoods and competition over dwindling natural resources,” said Eric Perdison, WFP’s Representative and Country Director in Mali.  “We are grateful to the EU for their generous funding which will help us expand social safety nets to vulnerable communities and increase their livelihoods, especially through income-generating initiatives for women. At WFP, we are convinced that long-term investments in food systems and interventions in local value chains are essential to end hunger and malnutrition,” he added. Through the REDDAM (Resilience and Sustainable Development in the Agro-Pastoral area of Mali) project, internally displaced people, and vulnerable host communities’ farmers' organisations, and other small-scale low-income food producers will receive equipment and technical training in the management of post-harvest losses and income-generating activities. Additionally, 15,000 children under 2, and pregnant women and lactating mothers will receive specialised nutritious food under the prevention and treatment of malnutrition programme. “The European Union is fully committed to assist Malian people in the most vulnerable regions of Mali. We support families' autonomy and fight against chronic food insecurity,” said Bart Ouvry, EU’s Ambassador in Mali. Persistent conflict, recurrent population displacement, climate shocks, the impact of COVID-19, and high food prices have exacerbated the food security and nutrition situation in the country. According to the latest Cadre Harmonisé food security analysis, 1.2 million people, approximately 6 percent of the total population of Mali, will have irregular access to safe and nutritious food during the lean season period (June – August 2023).  Additionally, more than 1,600 people in the northern region of Menaka will experience catastrophic levels of hunger, unless urgent action is taken now to address the root causes of food insecurity. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of World Food Programme (WFP).