• Troops neutralise two bandits, clear hideouts in Kaduna
• NOSEF worries over killing of Christians, tasks FG on security during polls Terrorists, yesterday morning, killed three persons, including a woman working at the local clinic in the community, and abducted six others, including a pregnant woman, at Jajar Kanwa village in Jibia Local Council of Katsina State. The incident, which occurred about 2.00a.m., also saw the terrorists cart away several domestic animals, money, phones, food items and more. A local told The Guardian that the terrorists, in their numbers, came on motorcycles and armed with sophisticated weapons. The source said that many people sustained injuries while trying to flee from the terrorists. He said that before the terrorists left, they told the residents to pay N20,000 each within one week or face their wrath. The Guardian gathered that most of the residents are peasant farmers. The source, therefore, called on government and security operatives to come to their rescue. Spokesperson for the Katsina police command, SP Gambo Isah, who confirmed the incident, however said only two people were killed and three injured. “Two were killed and three injured. Due to ongoing operations in Sokoto and Zamfara axes, terrorists are trooping into Katsina through Zamfara. While they were coming in, they attacked some villagers at Kanwar Jaja in Jibia, killed two and injured three. But no kidnapping took place. “I assure you that security forces are engaging them, rooting them out from their hideouts in the state,” Isah added. IN Kaduna, troops of Operation Forest Sanity (OPFS) have neutralised two bandits and cleared several hideouts in Chikun Local Council. The Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, disclosed this in a statement, yesterday. Aruwan said the troops achieved the feat during fighting patrols along the Kaboresha-Rijana Forest-Kuzo-Kujeni-Gwanto-Kachia axis. He explained that the troops set up an ambush along the Gwanto-Kwasau Road, and thus engaged bandits approaching the location on motorcycles. The troops neutralised two bandits and recovered three motorcycles. FOLLOWING the killing of a Catholic priest in Niger State, on Sunday, the Northern States Christian Elders Forum (NOSCEF) has expressed deep concern over incessant killings in the North by terrorists, particularly Christian clerics and worshipers. The Christian elders lamented the killings in Southern Kaduna and Niger communities, expressing surprise at the deteriorating security situation, even with the reported improved surveillance and deterrent measures being taken by the security forces in tackling insecurity. Chairman of NOSCEF, Ejoga Inalegwu, stated in Kaduna yesterday: “We call on the governments at the state and federal levels to give the security forces the needed support to sustain the push against insecurity plaguing the country, especially as we approach the 2023 elections, so that no section of the country is disenfranchised due to insecurity. “We were excited when politicians were able to make night visits to areas of hitherto high insecurity, only to, at the same time, be greeted with sustained attacks against communities in Southern Kaduna.” On the killing of Christian priests and worshippers by terrorists, Inalegwu added: “Our hearts go out to the families of Rev. Fr. Isaac Achi, who was burnt alive in Niger; his assistant, who was shot; the many killed recently in the Kagoro attacks; the 25 people kidnapped during church service on January 15, 2023 in Katsina and a host of others in the recent past.”