Download logo The Lesotho Evangelical Church of Southern Africa (LECSA) on Sunday, led the thanksgiving prayer for the Royal family at Matsieng Royal Palace.  Among the attendees were former Prime Minister Mr Pakalitha Mosisili, former Deputy Prime Minister Mr Lesao Lehohla, former Speaker of National Assembly Mr Sephiri Motanyane, former Foreign Affairs Minister Mr Mohlabi Tsekoa, Principal Chiefs, senior government officials, and Basotho at large. In his sermon, Reverend Khabesha Ramonots’ said this year is important as King Letsie III is turning 60 years adding they are thankful and pray that God continues to bless him with more years. He called Basotho to pray for the Royal family and for the protection of the King’s children. He said that if Prince Lerotholi grows up in a stable country with good governance, he will become wise leader. He said that praying together with the King and public servants helps everyone to be dedicated and productive in their service delivery because the Royal family is the core of Basotho’s peace and stability and it is important to pray for them. He prayed to God to give them strength, good health, wisdom and courage to carry out their obligations to the nation. He further prayed for peace in the world and urged world leaders to stop war and terror. On the same token, Mrs. ‘Matankiso Nthunya Vice Head of Synod said that they are thankful LECSA to lead the prayer. She said as the church they are forging ahead with relations that King Moshoeshoe I had with church leaders. She said they are also thankful to God for protecting the King and Queen and the whole Royal family from COVID-19 Pandemic. She expressed gratitude for the new government saying that they should lead the country in line with God so that it can be stable. She noted that it is vital for political leaders to preach and implement the word of God in their daily lives for peace and prosperity. She added that leaders should seek guidance from God to make good decisions. On behalf of the family, Chief Masupha Seeiso thanked LECSA and its prayer partners for bringing them closer to God saying they appreciated the effort. He said that Basotho has no peace because of lies, hatred, jealousy, and corruption reining in the country therefore urged all to pray for Lesotho so that Lesotho returns to being a peaceful country. The Lesotho Evangelical Church in Southern Africa (LECSA) is one of the oldest Protestant churches in Africa, established in 1833 by the Paris Evangelical Missionary Society. They received the support of Moshoeshoe I, and under his protection, the church developed. The first mission station was in Morija. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Government of Lesotho.