•Says PDP will face Tsunamic defection in weeks to come Deputy Senate President and the All Progressives Congress’ governorship candidate in Delta State for the 2023 general election, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, has accused Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of repaying all his benefactors, including a one-time governor of the state, James Ibori, with ingratitude. Omo-Agege stated this on Friday during the continuation of his ward-to-ward campaign to Ozoro and Oleh, Isoko North and South local government areas where he said Okowa was bent on retiring his political benefactor from active politics. He berated the Okowa-led administration for mismanaging the state’s resources, noting that those currently defecting from the Peoples Democratic Party to the APC were doing so on their own personal conviction. He added that Okowa would not be able to withstand the defection tsunami that would hit the PDP in the days ahead. Saying that the PDP, would lose the 2023 presidential election, he urged Delta residents to key into the political “national grid” by voting for the APC’s presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu. He reiterated that Okowa’s vice presidency bid was the height of selfishness and treachery to the southern Nigeria people, noting that any “vote cast for the PDP in the presidential election is a wasted vote.” While promising to bring an end the marginalization of the oil-rich Isoko nation if elected to govern the state, he said the Okowa-led administration was inflicting untold hardship on the Isoko people despite their huge contribution to the state’s wealth. Omo-Agege berated the Delta governor for promising to rescue Nigeria when he had been unable to rescue Deltans from poverty, lamenting the debt burden being inflicted on the State by the Okowa-led administration. He said he had made it clear “that further attempts to collect another loan of ₦40 billion will be rejected by us. We have put the banks on notice that the ₦40 billion loan or any other loan being sought by the Okowa government in this administration that  has just four months to go, any such loan if given by any bank, that bank will be on their own.” Advising the Isoko people to vote for all APC candidates in the forthcoming polls, he noted that the party’s senatorial candidate in Delta South, Mr. Joel-Onowakpo Thomas, was the most qualified among those vying for the position in terms of intellectual content. “In Joel-Onowakpo Thomas, you have a renowned intellect; a chartered accountant, the best educated among everyone running for that office,” he said. Earlier, while formally receiving the Commissioner for Urban Renewal, Chief Karo Ilolo, former Chairman of Ethiope East Local Government Area, Chief Faith Majemite and other PDP chieftains who defected to the APC, the State party Chairman, Elder Omeni Sobotie said the decampees had moved from darkness to light. 