As the 2023 general election draws nearer, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Alex Ajipe, has described the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as an opposition party with no structure to win at the forthcoming polls in the Southwest. Ajipe, who is the South West Zonal Director of the Social and Humanitarian Directorate of the Presidential Campaign Council (PCC), gave the assurance at a media briefing in Akure, the capital of Ondo State. While disclosing that he has thrown the legal matter challenging the emergence of Jide Ipinsagba as senatorial candidate behind him, he said all the party’s candidate in the state and Southwest will sweep the votes at the forthcoming polls. Ajipe said: “I don’t believe in the ideology of PDP; if anybody is in PDP and believes that they can win this election, that person is wasting his or her time, because there is nothing that can make PDP win this election; there is no structure. “The position I’m holding now is one of responsibility and recognition for the party, and Bola Ahmed Tinubu is someone that I love personally; he is a human capital developer. We have a lot of his products today that nobody can deny across the globe. “We want to vote for an economist, Tinubu, because we believe that at the end of the day, he will be able to do the needful. “The PDP candidate for the Ondo North Senatorial District, Tokunbo Modupe, is from my zone, my federal constituency, and as a matter of fact, he is my friend. But this is a party affair, and it is all about business, and politics is not about your brother or sister. If I wanted to work for him, I would have been in the PDP, but as long as I’m in the APC, I will work for my party and its candidates. “There is no structure in the PDP that can make them win this election in Ondo State. My kinsman, Modupe, is a gentle man, but he cannot win this election. “APC is our home; we will strengthen and democratise it, and we believe that we will get the rewards that we deserve at the end of the day. “At the moment, I still remain in my party, APC, and I am going to campaign for everybody who is today a candidate that is recognised by INEC. I remain the Director of the Social and Humanitarian Directorate of the PCC of the APC.” “I’m going to campaign for the likes of our Northern Senatorial District candidate, Jide Ipinsagba, and others, and even though we have started campaigning for them with our branded vehicles where we put their pictures and names, I have no grudges against him (Ipinsagba) because politics is about interest. “Besides, we are going to the nooks and crannies of Ondo State and the entire South-West to campaign massively for all the candidates of the party.” So, I’m using this opportunity to appeal to all my supporters that I’m still in APC and that we will all work together for the party. “We will remain here; we believe in what we know; we believe in the majority; and we believe in God Almighty, and if we continue pursuing it, we will get there one day.” So, it is not only when you become a senator that you can benefit people; there are lots of opportunities that are still coming.” 