Download logo On January 15, 2023 local time, Egyptian President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi met in Cairo with the visiting Chinese Foreign Minister Qin Gang.  El-Sisi asked Qin Gang to convey his sincere greetings to President Xi Jinping and he extended congratulations again on the success of the 20th National Congress of the Communist Party of China. He noted that China is a great country and its development is unstoppable. The Egypt-China friendship has been historically “unbreakable”. Egypt will continue its firm adherence to the one-China principle and resolutely oppose any external forces to interfere in China's internal affairs. Egypt and China have achieved fruitful results in jointly advancing the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) and Egypt welcomes more Chinese enterprises to invest and set up businesses in the country. In light of China's recent improvement and recalibration of the COVID-19 prevention and control measures, the Egyptian people warmly welcome the Chinese people to visit Egypt as soon as possible. Egypt is willing to strengthen coordination with China on international and regional affairs and promote Arab-China and Africa-China cooperation. Qin Gang conveyed President Xi Jinping's warm greetings and best wishes to President El-Sisi. He noted that China and Egypt, cherishing the same aspirations, have supported each other and forged a profound friendship in the cause of pursuing development, promoting peace and safeguarding justice. The heads of state of the two countries have high-level mutual trust and maintain close exchanges, giving a strong impetus to the development of the comprehensive strategic partnership between China and Egypt. China highly appreciates Egypt's reaffirmation of firmly adhering to the one-China principle and likewise supports Egypt in pursuing the development path suited to its own national conditions and in defending  its national sovereignty, security and development interests. China looks forward to strengthen synergy between the two countries' development strategies, speed up the development of key cooperation projects, advance the BRI cooperation and promote more fruitful implementation of the China-Arab States Summit's outcomes in Egypt. Qin Gang said, China appreciates and supports Egypt's positive role in promoting peace and stability in the Middle East, and China is willing to work with Egypt to promote long-term peace and stability in the region and push for an early and just settlement of the Palestinian question. After the meeting, Qin Gang held talks with Egyptian Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry. The two sides spoke highly of the exemplary role played by China and Egypt in marching ahead side by side through solidarity and cooperation and the strategic significance that goes beyond the bilateral scope, saying that they will jointly implement the important common understandings reached by the two heads of state, continuously upgrade bilateral relations, strengthen multilateral coordination, jointly safeguard the basic norms governing international relations, and defend international fairness and justice. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Embassy of the People’s Republic of China in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.