Lagos State Films and Video Censors Board (LSFVCB), the state Creative Industry through the Ministry of Arts and Culture, in partnership with Ebony Life Creative Academy, on Friday at Ebony Life Place, Victoria Island, Lagos, has expanded the film industry by producing another set of 128 graduates in the industry after three months of intensive training. Executive Secretary, LSFVCB, Mrs Bukola Agbaminoja said the vision of Lagos state is being actualized through impacting people into the creative industry Additionally that the state government is responsible for the payment of tuition of the students with arrangements to access loans for movie production, having disbursed N200 million loan so far for 48 artistes as start-ups after the training. In her words: “ We are beginning to impact the industry with people that have been given the necessary skill to do wonders, we are not just taking those that already have the knowledge, we are upskilling those that have the knowledge, training new talents. “We have impacted them with the prerequisite knowledge and certification in the film industry. Many of them are professionals in different genres of film production and this gives us great joy to graduate 120 students who are ready to hit the market. “I am happy that when you watch upcoming productions, a minimum of three of our products will feature in these. Imagine students that have just taken courses in three months performing remarkably to the extent of producing fiction movies.” Speaking at the event, the Chief Executive Officer, of Lagos Council for Arts and Culture, Mr Idowu Johnson said the idea to produce artistes is part of the efforts of the state government to boost its economy and make Lagos one of the largest markets for tourism. Head of School, Drikus Volschenk said the training would not have been possible without the efforts of the state government. Drikus said the Academy has produced 850 artistes since its inception. Adding that “I think the film industry is always a tough industry, but the graduates will make a way by themselves, Some of them will pop out here and there in Nollywood as big stars, but they need to keep companies and produce their own work that’s the way they are going to change Nollywood” Dante Okere who played the role, of Major Hamzat who developed a hatred for the deviants in one of the premiers titled Shikari, said the production was tasking though it has produced the best in him. A female actress Rhoda Inaju, who played the role of Asabe in a movie titled, Last Operation, said, “I’m now trained and certified, fully equipped with the knowledge of what featuring for Screen entails, and ready to become a FORCE in the Movie Industry.” One of the graduates, Chidinma Emeziem-Nnorom, the creative producer of the film titled ‘Shikari’ said producing the film was quite challenging the fact that a lot of producers shy away from fiction movies but being a graduate from ELCA is a step in the right direction. She commended the Lagos state government and Chief Executive Officer, Ebonylife Place, Mo Abudu for the free training with foreign professional lecturers, promised to be great ambassadors of the school and the state “The Nigerian filming industry is growing rapidly, hopefully, I see myself to be one of the notable producers in Nigeria and in the diaspora as well in the next few years by the grace of God.” Through the Viewer’s Choice Award, awards were given to the best producers, actors, directors etc.