Says insecurity may lead to cancellation of polls
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has denied releasing a new final list of candidates for the 2023 general elections on Sunday January 8, 2023. National Commissioner and Chairman (Information and Voter Education Committee), Festus Okoye, said this in Abuja, yesterday. Okoye said a report claiming the Commission released a final list for the elections on its website on Sunday was false and misleading. “The Commission wishes to state categorically that no new publication of the final list of candidates was released as reported. The public should, therefore, discountenance the story. “For the record, the final list of candidates for the 2023 general elections was published, at least, 150 days before the day of election, in compliance with the provision of Section 32(1) of the Electoral Act 2022. “Accordingly, the final list for presidential and National Assembly elections was published on September 20, 2022, while that of governorship and state Assembly elections was published two weeks later on October 4, 2022. “These are clearly indicated as Item Eight on the Timetable and Schedule of Activities for the 2023 General Election, released by the Commission on February 26, 2022,” Okoye said. He said there could not be a final list of candidates 46 days to the polls, except names published as substitutions for candidates nominated earlier, in compliance with court order. “Moreover, some of the candidates that allegedly made the new ‘final’ list are still in court and the matter is, therefore, subjudice. Political parties, litigants and the public should be guided accordingly.” Meanwhile, insecurity across the country, if not decisively dealt with, could culminate in cancellation or postponement of elections in constituencies, the Commission warned. National Commissioner and Chairman of the Board of the Electoral Institute (BEI), Prof. Abdullahi Zuru, disclosed this during a two-day Validation Workshop of Election Security Training Resources in Abuja, yesterday. He said: “We all appreciate the fact that election security is vital to democratic consolidation through provision of enabling environment for the conduct of free, fair, credible and inclusive elections, thus strengthening the electoral process. “Consequently, in preparations for the 2023 general elections, the Commission is not leaving anything to chance in ensuring intensive and extensive security is provided for personnel, materials and processes. “This is, particularly, significant to the Commission, given the current insecurity challenges in various parts the country and the fact that the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) members constitute the core of the polling unit election officials. Moreover, if the insecurity is not monitored and dealt with decisively, it could ultimately culminate in the cancellation and/or postponement of elections in constituencies and hinder declaration of election results and precipitate constitutional crisis. “This must not be allowed to happen and shall not be allowed to happen. Therefore, security personnel, in particular, and all election officials must be security conscious and alert to unusual activities in their environment and must be fully equipped to deal with any challenge at all times.” 