Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Samuel Ogbuku, has said one of the major problems of the Commission is poor budgeting allocation. Ogbuku said it is inappropriate to budget N1 billion for a project  of N10 billion,  which according  to him, delays the project. He said the board would review the process to ensure funds were properly and adequately provided to ensure projects are started and finished within one year. Ogbuku promised that the people of the region would experience new developments soon as the new leadership of NDDC is poised to make a difference in the lives of the people. A statement by the NDDC Director, Corporate Affairs, Ibitoye Abosede, said the managing director spoke in a live interview on Arise News Television programme, yesterday, monitored by  media unit of the commission. The Managing Director said: “As an interventionist agency, we will be executing projects that connect states in the region and impact the lives of the people. We will focus on legacy projects. “We will interface with state governments and I can assure you we will only carry out projects that will positively affect lives of the people of the Niger Delta region.” Reacting to what he described as “the perceived failure of the NDDC,” Ogbuku urged Niger Delta stakeholders to give the new board time to unfold its agenda. “We have a team that means business. We are all going to integrate our visions to ensure whatever we are doing is for the development of the Niger Delta region.” “Right now, there is forensic audit report. We have requested for a copy, which we will study and incorporate into our vision. It makes things easier for us because we already have something to work with. The Minister of Niger Delta Affairs has also charged us to do a number of things. We will put all these together and come up with a comprehensive vision for the people of the Niger Delta.” The NDDC Chief Executive Officer said stakeholders in the Niger Delta region would have nothing to worry about, as their interests would be accommodated in the activities of the Commission.