Global e-commerce and direct selling leader, QNET has geared up for 2023 by recapping its growth, recognition and successes for 2022. Regional General Manager of the Sub-Saharan Africa region for QNET,  Mr Biram Fall,  attributed the success to high-quality products, a strong network of independent distributors, a commitment to ethical business practices, and Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSRs) as efforts to create a positive social impact in the society it operates. In April 2022, QNET officially marked its entry into Nigeria by announcing a significant partnership with Transblue Limited, making the latter QNET’s partner and representative in the Nigerian market. The association is built on the need to tap into the Nigerian market’s exuberance in Direct Selling and provide a globally recognised platform for customers and distributors to facilitate sales and marketing that will significantly improve customer service management and local market penetration for the brand. On the effectiveness partnership with Transblue Limited,  Fall said: “Our collaboration with Transblue has been a game-changer for our business. It has allowed us to reach new customers and expand our product offerings. We believe partnerships like this are key to our success, and we are grateful for the opportunity to work with such a reputable and respected company. We look forward to growing and thriving together to deliver the best to Nigerians.” The entry of QNET in Nigeria aligns with the government’s vision to partner with the private sector to achieve the desired economic recovery and transformative growth effectively. The brand is positioning itself as a credible business entity, set to create genuine entrepreneurial skills among the youth of Nigeria through well-established global e-commerce and Direct Selling ecosystems, hence implementing a pilot phase of its signature financial literacy programme, FinGreen. According to the Chief Executive Officer of Transblue Ltd, Mr Ajisafe Abiodun,  the programme has positively influenced their credibility as a Direct Selling company; “The World Federation of Direct Selling Association’s (WFDSA)  annual report 2021 shows that 125.4 million people are involved in direct selling with 74per cent women and 26 per cent men. The Direct Selling Industry has proved to be an attractive opportunity for women, providing flexible options for supplemental income. This further reiterates our aim for the FinGreen programme, which includes providing adequate skills and proper developmental training for all, particularly for youth, women, and those embarking on entrepreneurship. Unfortunately, some companies operate pyramid schemes under the guise of legitimate direct-selling businesses because it is a highly unregulated industry; therefore, consumers must carefully research any direct selling opportunity before joining or investing in it, a training the initiative provides.” The financial literacy programme is designed with women and youth of vulnerable communities in emerging economies to drive developmental goals in mind. It is vital in supporting overall economic growth and encouraging governments, corporations, and communities to achieve broader development objectives. The pilot phase, launched in June 2022, saw over 600 young people trained to be financially literate and empowered. An initial number of 20 participants were introduced using the train-the-trainer module, which taught other youth in their communities using the peer-to-peer approach. This training saw young people in Lagos state and its environs involved and benefit from it. On the subject of giving back to society, the partners donated to the Bab Es Salaam Orphanage located in Ikeja GRA, Lagos, to mark their partnership with Transblue and the launch of the country’s activities. This donation highlighted the company’s fundamental principles, which include reaching out to support all persons, including the vulnerable children in society. The partners kept at their efforts to create a positive social impact for the underprivileged in society by closing the year’s activities with a donation of several essential food items and toiletries to The Little Saints Orphanage in Nigeria, showing their commitment to investing in the educational welfare of young people in their countries of operation. These donations formed part of their ongoing Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) efforts for 2022, with a promise that CSR efforts moving forward will focus on providing scholarships to brilliant but needy students. Other initiatives by the company, within the year in review, included the brand’s participation in the 2022 World Water Forum, thought leader opinions on the “Direct Selling model being key to youth empowerment”, and their contribution to the conversation on climate change’s impact on developing countries such as Nigeria, during the World Environment Day. QNET plans to continue expanding its operations in Nigeria, focusing on mindset and developmental change in financial literacy and introducing new product lines in the coming year. According to a survey carried out by Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM), Nigeria is eager for business opportunities. It ranks among the fastest-growing markets for QNET, mainly driven by the country’s entrepreneurial culture and the relevance of the company’s product portfolio for households and individuals; hence the company intends to invest heavily in the lives of its people as it continues to constantly communicate with its customers to stay informed on their needs.