Two soldiers and three police officers were reportedly killed on Saturday night as unknown gunmen attacked security checkpoints along the Enugu/Abakaliki highway. It was gathered that the gunmen who operated in two sienna vehicles, drove first into the military checkpoint at Idodo, Enugu State and attacked it, killing two soldiers and proceeded to the border checkpoint with Ebonyi State, where they killed three policemen. Another policeman who was shot on the leg is said to be receiving treatment at a hospital in the Ebonyi State Capital. The police in Ebonyi State confirmed that the hoodlums operated with two Sienna buses. A short whatsApp message from the State Police spokesman, SP Chris Anyanwu, reads: “Yesterday’s attack by unknown gunmen at Ebonyi/Enugu boundary took place at about 1808hrs. Three police personnel of Operation Safer Highway were fatally injured. Later confirmed dead. Hoodlums operated in two sienna vehicles, drove into the Checkpoint, opened fire on the policemen.” Also contacted, the Deputy Director, Army Public Relations, 82 Division Enugu, Col. Joe Uneakalu said he read but didn’t “have details about the incident”. Meanwhile, Enugu State Police Command have busted a gang of armed men operating as notorious “unknown gunmen” in the State. The gang according to DSP Daniel Ndukwe, the Police Public Relations Officer for Enugu command was “intercepted and busted at Diamond Estate axis of Onitsha Road Enugu, in an intelligence-guided sting operation”. Ndukwe in a statement made available to newsmen on Sunday, said a member of the gang later identified as Chinenye Nwadike, a 32-year-old male from Imo State but resident at Ndiagha, Amechi-Uwani Enugu, was arrested, while others escaped with bullet wounds. He said the team recovered a yellow tricycle the suspects were operating in, which was earlier reported snatched by the gang at gunpoint in the evening hours of the same date, at Eke-Otu Amechi-Awkunanaw Enugu. “Other exhibits recovered include: two assault rifles, one English-made and one locally-fabricated Pump Action guns each, one double-barreled gun, three hundred and forty-nine live ammunition of 7.62mm calibre, twenty-five live cartridges, one Monday (sledge) hammer, one Battle axe head, four Machetes, two bottles of Six Followers Perfume and objects suspected to be charms”, he said Ndukwe further stated that the Commissioner of Police, CP Ahmed Ammani, while “commending the operatives for acting on the crime prevention measures of the Command towards the actualization of the operational breakthrough, charged them to remain steadfast, resolute and ensure that the fleeing members of the gang are fished out”. The Commissioner further charged citizens of the state to remain law-abiding, vigilant and continue to assist the Command with credible information and/or intelligence required to clamp down unrepentant criminals in the state. Such information/intelligence can be supplied at the nearest Police Station; or by calling the Command’s emergency hotlines on: 08032003702, 0807539088.