The Imo State Police Command on Thursday said its operative neutralised hoodlums suspected to be members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and Eastern Security Network (ESN) and recovered firearms during a cross-fire attack. Police spokesman, CSP Micheal Abattam, in a statement stated that the other suspected hoodlum scampered into bushes for safety with various degrees of gunshot wounds. Abattam disclosed that the command had received a distress call that the suspected hoodlums were proceeding to burn down Agwa police station both in Oguta LGA of the state after they had attacked and set ablaze the building of Agwa central vigilante group. “The combatant commander’s tactical teams swiftly mobilized to the area. Having been informed that the hoodlums had cordoned the station, the police operatives tactically maneuvered their way into the station, joined the operatives of the division, and professionally engaged the hoodlums in a fierce gun duel,” Abattam said. “And in the process three of the hoodlums were neutralized while others scampered for safety into the adjoining bushes with various degrees of gunshot wounds, abandoning three of their operational vehicles.” He said the corpse of the hoodlums has been evacuated and deposited in the mortuary while the police operatives who sustained injury have been rushed to the hospital for treatment. Police operatives recovered two Pump Action guns, two Double Barrel guns, twenty-four live ammunition, twelve (12) expended cartridges, one  Improvised Explosive Device, three operational vehicles – one green coloured Lexus 470 GL, one black coloured Toyota Highlander, one Oxblood coloured minibus, two motorcycles, one (1) iron box, one traveling bag, and assorted charms. The police spokesman, however, urged citizens of the state to collaborate with the police and other security agencies in the fight against terrorism and to report any suspicious activities or person(s) seen treating gunshot wounds within their community to the nearest police station. “Investigation is in progress, the gallant operatives are not relenting in their efforts to arrest the fleeing members of the terrorist group,” Abattam said. 