As Shaibu visits Igueben communities over attacks on station Amid kidnappings, attacks and destruction of railway infrastructure, the Federal Government has disclosed plans to establish Nigerian Railway and host communities security committees to tackle armed attacks on railway infrastructure and passengers in the country. The move by Federal Government was unfolded as Edo State Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu, also met with heads of security agencies and community leaders at the Igueben Railway Station. Minister of State for Transportation, Ademola Adegoroye, disclosed Federal Government’s plan during a tour of Tom Ikimi Train Station in Igueben, Edo State, which was attacked by gunmen on Saturday. The minister, who sympathised with victims of the attack, said the intention of the perpetrators was to sabotage efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari  to resuscitate rail transport service. He stressed that government was determined to forestall train station attacks. One of the steps, according to him, will be the establishment of a collaborative initiative between the Corporation and host communities. The minister, who solicited the cooperation of host communities in this regard, said it was in the best interest of host communities to ensure Federal Government’s investments and personnel are protected. He, however, allayed fears of plans to shut down the  rail system, saying:  “Nigerian Railway Corporation remains undeterred, which is why we will continue to operate this rail service. We are not going to stop. All we need to do is to ensure the safety and security of our people and our passengers.” He assured that security operatives were on the trail of the assailants, adding that government would do everything possible to bring the perpetrators to justice. Managing Director, Nigerian Railway Corporation, Fidet Okhiria, said train services on the Warri-Itakpe corridor had not been halted, noting, however, that the train would not stop at the Tom Ikimi Train Station for the meantime. During his visit to Igueben, Shaibu said the state government was strengthening security to check crime and criminality, promising that the Governor Godwin Obaseki administration would make the state unsafe for kidnappers and other criminal elements to thrive. The deputy governor was joined at the meeting by other top government officials, including the Senator representing Edo Central Senatorial District, Clifford Ordia and the Speaker, Edo State House of Assembly, Marcus Onobun. Shaibu, who called for calm among residents of Igueben Council, urged members of the public to provide useful information that will aid rescue efforts by security agencies. He said: “We were here on Sunday for a fact-finding mission and today, we are here again to give moral support to our security troops on ground and also have another discussion to review all our activities since this kidnap happened and to see areas to improve on. “The important point is that more persons have been rescued and the numbers are reducing. Our target is for everybody to be released. We want to thank the security agencies for their efforts at ensuring all captured are released. I appreciate the Inspector General of Police, Chief of Air Staff and the Chief of Army Staff for all their efforts in ensuring those kidnapped are rescued unhurt.” Meanwhile, the Niger Delta Congress (NDC) has decried attacks on travellers at Igueben, saying the development underscores worsening security situation in the Niger Delta region. The group commiserated with the injured and families of those kidnapped and called on state governors of the Niger Delta region to, as a matter of urgency, ensure the release of those kidnapped. While urging the governors to put in place mechanisms to protect lives and property of Niger Delta residents, NDC said the frequency of attacks gives cause for serious concern. In a statement, with reference number NDC/PS/001/2023 shared with The Guardian, which was signed by its spokesman, Mudiaga Ogboru, NDC stated: “The same style of terrorist attack, which was successfully executed in Igueben on Saturday, was also attempted unsuccessfully at the Abraka train station in Delta State on July 8, 2022 by terrorists masquerading as herdsmen.” “We also recall attacks on communities in Rivers, Bayelsa, and Cross River states in the last months of 2022, which left scores dead and many others kidnapped.”