President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, urged Nigerians to support the Armed Forces and other security agencies for their patriotic roles to secure the country. The President made the appeal during a special Jumat Prayer held at the National Mosque, Abuja, to mark this year’s Armed Forces Remembrance Day. President Buhari, represented by the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, said: “The Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and other security agencies are working hard to ensure that the country is secured, and is safe. They do that with commitment, patriotism and sense of responsibility and duty.” Also, the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and the Commissioner for Homes Affairs, Prince Anofi Elegushi implored Nigerians to continually assist the families of fallen heroes, as nothing is too small in that direction. Speaking, yesterday, at a dedicated Jumat service, Sanwo-Olu, represented by his Deputy, Dr. Kadri Hamzat, noted that many of the fallen heroes paid the ultimate prize for the unity and progress of the country. He said: “We pray that God should bless their families. We should donate towards their cause. Many of them went through a lot, so the best we can do is to support them.” Sanwo-Olu said the sacrifices of the military were huge. “If we can do the best in our different corners, the country would be better,” he said. Sanwo-Olu was optimistic that Nigeria would be better, though he observed that the leaders, just like the followers, needed to do more to make the country great. He urged Nigerians not to rate themselves by what outsiders tell them, rather they should copy what is good in other countries and leave out what is bad. President Buhari continued: “It is our duty as citizens to always pray for law enforcement agents; to always give them the kind of support that they need.” Lawan said: “I’m here and speaking as a representative of the President. We owe the country and the Armed Forces and other security agencies the obligation to ensure that we provide the kind of resources that they need to continue to provide security and safety in our country. “Even though resources may not be sufficient, but we have to, at all times, prioritise funding and provide resources for the Armed Forces and other security agencies. “Some of them lose their lives in the process. Some are maimed and incapacitated. Therefore, we have to be at the top of ensuring that we respect them.” 