Says It’ll Restore Peace, Security In S’East The Governor of Anambra State, Prof. Charles Soludo, has restated his call for the release of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, to ensure peace and security during the 2023 general election, particularly in the South East. Soludo, who made the plea, yesterday, during the national/presidential campaign rally of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in Awka, Anambra State, vowed to stand as surety for Kanu’s release, and appealed to President Mohammadu Buhari to hasten his release. The governor, who is also the national leader of the party, argued that without the release of Kanu, the fear still remains that South East will continue to experience problems before, during and even after the elections. He commended President Buhari’s administration for completing the second Niger Bridge, reconstruction of the Enugu/Onitsha Expressway, and other infrastructural development in the South East region, while also thanking him for all the support that he has been giving to security agencies in their fight against crime and criminality. “I urge President Buhari to release Nnamdi Kanu. We need to have a heart-to-heart conversation that will bring lasting peace, harmony and security throughout the South East, and Nigeria in general. “In that conversation, Nnamdi Kanu needs to be present on the table. If Mr. President cannot release him unconditionally, as directed by the court, he should release Kanu to me. “I am ready to stand as his surety. I will provide him shelter, and provide him whenever the need arises. But the ultimate aim is that South East needs some peace and security.” In his speech at the occasion, the Presidential candidate of APGA, Prof. Peter Umeadi, said APGA is the party to beat in the 2023 general election, insisting that his party would hand over a miracle of the century to Nigerians if given the presidential mandate. He said that the party has a manifesto, which reflects true federalism, adding that the party is the only true platform to rescue Nigeria from its sorry state. Also speaking, the national chairman of the party, Chief Victor Ike Oye, said with its present posture, there is a great hope that the party will sweep polls from top to bottom in the 2023 general election. A former governor of the state, and chairman of APGA Board of Trustees (BoT), Chief Willie Obiano, described Umeadi, as a round peg in a round hole, and urged Nigerians to vote for APGA candidates in the forthcoming general elections.