• Total Promotions line up SANs, others against IMC The Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) season, which is scheduled to start this weekend, is being threatened, following an alleged legal move by Total Promotions to challenge organisers of the league, the Interim Management Committee (IMC), over Television and Title rights. The abridged league is expected to commence on Sunday, January 8, across the country, but The Guardian learnt yesterday that Total Promotions has already lined up a powerful legal team, led by Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SAN), to challenge IMC in court on Tuesday. In two separate letters, made available to The Guardian, yesterday, Total Promotions warned the Director-General of NTA, Salihu Abdulhamid Dembos, and the Chairman of the IMC, Gbenga Elegbeleye, to stay clear from the NPFL league. In one of the letters, titled ‘Buyers Beware,’ dated November 8, 2022, addressed to Dembos and Elegbeleye, Total Promotions owner, Mr. Niyi Alonge, warned the television station and the IMC against broadcasting the league. “Please, be informed that following the ongoing court tussle in Lagos High Court in Suit No: LD/997/2013 between Total Promotions Limited (claimant), Nigeria Football League Limited/League Management Company (defendants), the court ordered an interlocutory injunction restraining the defendants from interfering in any way with the performance of broadcast rights contract between the claimant and defendants,” the letter reads in part. Also, in a letter addressed to the Chairman of the IMC, Total Promotions referred the IMC to the Supreme Court judgement, just as it made reference to the Interlocutory Injunction from the Lagos High Court in Suit No: LD/997/2013 on the subject matter. The letter reads in part: “Please refer to the same Supreme Court Judgment page 317, paragraph J, also, page 329, paragraph D from which part quote this; A company winding up proceedings has not died, it is still alive but perhaps sick. In effect, the NFLL is still alive.” According to a source, Total Promotions is only waiting for the IMC to commence the NPFL on January 8 before pressing its legal throttle against the league organisers. The source hinted that Alonge is angry that despite the onging case in the Lagos High Court with Suit No. LD/997/2017 between Total Promotions and the Nigeria Football League Limited/League Management Company, the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), went ahead to announced a deal with GTI Group recently to cover title sponsorship and broadcast rights. No official of the IMC was ready to speak on the issue yesterday. 