The Gubernatorial Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ogun State, Ladi Adebutu, has called on Nigerians to vote for the presidential candidate of the party, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar on February 5. He also enjoined the electorate in Ogun to vote for him and his running mate, Adekunle Akinlade on March 11 to put an end to bad governance of Governor Dapo Abiodun in the state.
 
Adebutu made the appeal while speaking with his supporters in Ipokia and Odeda local councils, where he also donated two 500KVA transformers to the councils. He said, “No reasonable Nigerian should, for any reason, re-elect the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2023. We have suffered too much in the hands of the ruling party in just eight years at the centre, and under Governor Abiodun.”
 
Adebutu debunked the insinuation that the APC and PDP are the same, saying, “Facts and data are there that under the PDP insecurity was never as bad as it is now, cost of living was never as bad as it were now, youth unrest was never as bad as it were now; foreign criminals and ethnic distrust were never as bad as now, foreign exchange and the economy were never as bad just as the PDP never told lies and deceived Nigerians as the APC has done, and is still doing.”
 
The former House of Representatives member begged Nigerians not to re-elect those he described as “political murderers, economic killers” again, saying, “If we do, we are deliberately committing suicide.”
   
Adebutu also promised to set up a commission for border communities in the state if elected as governor.
 
He noted that border communities in the state urgently need special attention of the federal, state and local councils, saying he would restore peace and economic stability, as well as provide necessary infrastructure if elected. According to him, “My proposed commission would look into and address many of the challenges confronting border communities in the state.”
   
During the visit to the palace of Osile of Oke-Ona Egba, where he received royal blessings from His Royal Majesty, Oba Adedapo Tejuoso, Adebutu said local council autonomy would be given priority just as he would ensure the 35 per cent women participation in his administration. 