• Lagos LP replaces Salako with Ekong as Chairman
• APC-PCC launches operation ‘no void votes’ in Lagos Lagos State Police Command has vowed to deal decisively with anyone involved in thuggery before, during and after the forthcoming general elections. The Command’s spokesman, Benjamin Hundeyin, gave the warning, yesterday, in Lagos, while reacting to allegation that some politicians were grooming thugs ahead of the elections. Meanwhile, Labour Party (LP) Chairman in the state, Kayode Salako, yesterday, ceded his position to the state’s Deputy Women Leader of the party, Dayo Ekong, on the directive of the national leader of the party, Julius Abure. Salako, who disclosed this at a stakeholders’ meeting, said that Abure called him to his hotel in Osogbo five days ago and asked him to assume the position of his (Abure) Senior Adviser on Lagos Affairs. He said he told Abure that the new position was not constitutional but Abure replied that he decides what is what in the party. He, however, noted that the new position would give him the opportunity to focus on winning his life-long ambition. Salako added that Abure told him to nominate his replacement as chairman, and he (Salako) picked Ekong because of her doggedness and selflessness in the affairs of the party in Lagos. On her part, Ekong said she would ensure everyone in the party is carried along to ensure the party wins next month’s polls from the Presidency to the state House of Assembly in Lagos.
IN another development, the All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) Directorate of Grassroots Engagement and Orientation, Ifako-Ijaiye Local Council, yesterday, kicked off “Operation No Void Votes” in Lagos State. This, it said, was aimed at educating the electorate on the need to thumbprint correctly on the ballot papers. Co-ordinator, Directorate for Ifako-Ijaiye, Dr. Atinuke Owolabi, said the directorate would visit all nooks and crannies of the area for the exercise. Owolabi said the electorate needed to be sensitised to avoid any situation that would reduce the votes of the APC residential candidate, Bola Tinubu and other APC candidates in the state.