•As Ekiti PDP NASS Candidates Dare Party, Dismiss Suspension
Former Enugu State Governor and the senator representing Enugu East Senatorial District, Chimaroke Nnamani, yesterday, said that his suspension from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) would not have any adverse effect on his political career.
 
He was suspended along with other party members on Friday for alleged anti-party activities.
  
Reacting to the suspension slammed on him by the PDP National Working Committee (NWC), Nnamani said that the suspension came to him as a rude shock and huge surprise.  “My right to fair hearing was consequently violated against the clear provisions of the constitution of the party, especially in disciplinary proceedings and more importantly, the superior constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
 
“ I, therefore, appeal to all my constituents and supporters to remain calm and law-abiding, while we continue our campaign to a hopefully victorious conclusion.”
 
Nnamani thanked his constituents, the Ebeano political family, the people of Enugu State, and Nigerians for their overwhelming support and solidarity.
 
He added: “I’m overwhelmed by the outpouring of love and solidarity to me across the length and breadth of Nigeria and even across the political divide since the suspension was announced.
 
“I’m grateful. It is reassuring that my political career is alive. It is not threatened. We are going into the forthcoming elections very confident. We will win at all the levels of elections in Enugu State. Our people know where we are.”  Similarly, seven National Assembly candidates of the PDP in Ekiti State have described their purported suspension by the party as unnecessary distraction, saying that they would rather continue to reach out to voters in their various constituencies so as to emerge victorious in elections. The seven candidates, who said the purported suspension would have no effect whatsoever on their candidacy, said that they were more concerned with how to win their elections. A statement jointly signed by the candidates, the senatorial candidates, Alhaji Lateef Ajijola (Ekiti Central) and Funso Ayeni (Ekiti North) as well as the House of Representatives candidates; Otunba Yinka Akerele (Ekiti North 1), Babatunde Ajayi (Ekiti North 2), Lere Olayinka (Ekiti Central 2), Joju Fayose (Ekiti Central 1) and Mrs. Emiola Adenike Jennifer (Ekiti South 2), yesterday, called on members and supporters of the party in the state to remain calm, assuring that nothing will be left undone to ensure that they emerge victorious in the forthcoming elections. While describing the party’s action as unfortunate and unguided, they said that by the constitution of the PDP, the purported suspension is null and void because none of them was informed of offence that they committed. “We were never informed of any wrong doing. They didn’t tell us our offense so that we can defend ourselves as provided by the party’s constitution and the constitution of Nigeria. “Section 57 (6) of the PDP constitution is clear and unambiguous. It states that ‘any decision taken against a member who has not been informed of the charges against him or has not been given any opportunity of defending himself shall be null and void.’ “Also, Section 33 of the Electoral Act is very clear on candidates for elections and as it is, we remain candidates in line with law and we shall remain focused. Our party is a constitutional institution and we will ensure it obeys its constitution. “For the avoidance of doubt, Section 33 of the Electoral Act provides clearly that; ‘A political party shall not be allowed to change or substitute its candidate whose name has been submitted under Section 29 of this Act, except in the case of death or withdrawal by the candidate.’ “We are therefore unperturbed. Rather, we are being propelled to work harder to ensure victory in the elections while we explore appropriate means of handling the issues. “Ultimately, it will be victory for us as candidates of the PDP. Members as well as supporters of the party should keep up with this spirit as we continue with our campaign activities.”