Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, yesterday, received former Governor of Kano State and presidential candidate of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), Rabiu Kwankwaso, in Benin City, as the party flagged off its campaign in the state. Addressing journalists, Kwankwaso warned Nigerians against politics of ethnicity and religion. He said: “Some people don’t even understand the realities on the ground today. Every Nigerian is looking for a way out. Nobody is waiting for a neighbour or any leader to say this is the way. “Any party or candidate that comes out in the face of ethnicity or with the issue of religion, that party or candidate at the national level has failed in the election even before it starts. “ Kwankwaso, who was received by a crowd of supporters in Uromi, commissioned the party’s Edo Central campaign Secretariat in the town. He urged Edo people to vote for its senatorial candidate, Okoduwa Akhigbe, and other candidates in the state. Akhigbe boasted he remained the candidate to beat in the forthcoming senatorial election, noting that Nigerians were tired of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He said: “You can see the NNPP is a party with a singular objective to rescue Nigeria; we are here with new and fresh ideas on a restoration mission to give our children the better future they deserve. “It also affords us the opportunity to present my manifesto to our people. We will be leveraging on six levels to deliver this vision, titled the ‘Pestle Approach’, which includes Political Emancipation, Economic Revival, Prosperity and Empowerment, Social Advancement and Recognition, Environmental Sustainability and Legal Permanence and Gender Equality.” He added that the large turnout was a clear sign that the people of the senatorial district were yearning for a change, which, he noted, could only be brought about by the NNPP. Earlier at the palace of the traditional ruler of Uromi, Anslem Edenojie II, Ojuromi of Uromi Kingdom, Kwankwaso assured the royal father that if elected, insecurity, collapse in infrastructure and bad economy would be things of the past.