Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Douye Diri, his Lagos State counterpart, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, wife of Edo State Governor, Mrs. Betsy Obaseki and former Director General (DG) of the defunct National Sports Commission (NSC), Dr. Patrick Ekeji, are among 14 sports personalities and corporate organisations listed for this year’s Sportsville Special Recognition Award. The ceremony comes up on Saturday, February 4, 2023 at the Prestigious Lagos Country Club, Ikeja GRA, Lagos. Chief Executive Officer of Sportsville, Frank Ilaboya, yesterday, said, shortly after receiving the report from the Award Committee that the ceremony would continue to headline the best in Nigeria. The Committee, made up of sports editors, is headed by New Telegraph Group Sports Editor, Adekunle Salami. Other winners of the individual awards include, the General Overseer of Mountain of Fire and Miracle Ministries (MFM), Dr. D.K Olukoya, basketball guru, Col. Sam Ahmedu (rtd), Proprietor of Naija Ratels, Paul Edeh and president of HS Group, Mr. Taiye Ige. Others are Chairman of high flying Remo Stars Football Club, Kunle Soname, Initiator of Lagos WomenRun, Mrs. Tayo Popoola, foremost golf sponsor, Otunba Olusola Adekanola and Nigeria’s new sensation in sports commentary, Emmanuel Etim. Wrestling Coach to the last Commonwealth Games in Tokyo, Purity Aku and top indigenous kits manufacturer, Tunji Brown, popularly known as Owu Sports, also made the list. The late Brown Ebewele (Jujuman), who passed on last year, will receive a posthumous award. In the corporate worId, the duo of Zenith Bank and Supersports will be honoured for their roles in sports development and sponsorship in Nigeria. “We are happy to announce the above personalities as our winners for this year,” Ilaboya added. “I want to thank the Award Committee for a job well done. From our end, plans are in top gear to have another successful outing. “We also want to thank the Sports Minster, Mr. Sunday Dare and the Deputy Governor of Edo State, Philip Shaibu, for accepting to chair the event and as special guest of honour respectively.” 