With 44 days to commencement of the 2023 general elections, the Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD) has urged Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to ensure more registered voters collect their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) in readiness for the polls. The organisation, however, expressed concern over growing insecurity across the nation, saying it could undermine preparations for the elections, if not urgently addressed. CDD’s Director, Idayat Hassan, in a statement, yesterday, expressed concern that despite the directive of President Muhammadu Buhari mandating security agencies to secure volatile parts of the country by December, attacks by elements contesting the authority of the Nigerian state have not abated. She said: “In the southeast, Biafra agitations continue to undermine the peace, as separatists attack government buildings, while threatening to visit mayhem on voters who dare to show up at polling units on election day. “In the southwest, pockets of agitations led by Yoruba nation separatists have similarly disrupted public order and peace, while news of the recent abduction of 31 passengers at the train station in Igueben, Edo State, in the southsouth is also concerning. “Ongoing issues, ranging from banditry, kidnapping and acts of terrorism in the north, make it apparent that no part of the country can be deemed a safe haven in the face of the challenge. “CDD has, for several months, been monitoring the conflict situation across the country to inform election stakeholders on possible mitigation strategies. Through the Nigeria Election Violence Tracker, CDD, in collaboration with the Armed Conflict Location and Event Data (ACLED) Project, has been generating troves of data to shape policy decisions in the build up to the 2023 general elections. “For the weeks of November 28 to December 12, the tracker documented increase in violence targeting the facilities of INEC. Also, CDD’s SWOT analysis of 2023 elections released last year provided an overview of the extent of the security challenges confronting Nigeria as it heads into the election. “This research informs CDD’s concern that the required level of public order to support the smooth conduct of elections in several parts of the country has not be attained. “While CDD calls on Nigerian voters to remain ready and resolute to participate in the polls, it is imperative to call on agencies charged with securing the country to intensify efforts and do more to make the entire electoral terrain safe for voters, candidates, election observers, media and poll workers. “Ultimately, the work of ensuring a peaceful and rancour-free election process is not limited to security agencies. Political actors and stakeholders have a part to play, and must do so by ceasing their quick resort to violence, spreading of fake news, hate speech and the makings of unguarded utterances capable of undermining public peace and harmony. “CDD is disturbed about the fact that the build-up to the election has been marked by irresponsible rhetoric and name-calling, primarily by presidential candidates, despite repeated calls for political actors to engage in issue-based campaigning. Such trends do more harm to a nascent democracy going into its seventh general elections, at its fourth attempt at engendering a democratic form of governance.”