Plateau Central candidate threatens to sue party Presidential candidate of Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi, has, again, promised to tackle insecurity, hunger and youth unemployment if he becomes the country’s next President. Obi, who stated this when his campaign team was in Katsina State, yesterday, also said he would open the nation’s borders and address the prevailing poverty in the country. While addressing party members and supporters at the Muhammed Dikko Stadium, Katsina, yesterday, Obi enjoined the electorate to elect him at the coming general elections to make his plans for the country a reality. Obi and his running mate, Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed, told the crowd that they were ready to serve the country, if LP got the opportunity to form the new government. “People, through us, have chosen to build a new Nigeria. When we have security, we shall open our borders. Ours is to sack poverty in Nigeria. We cannot fight poverty without opening our borders; but we shall put in place adequate security first. “We know you have always been deceived by the people you voted for in the past. We, in LP, will not deceive you.” We appeal to you to vote for us and I assure you, we will not deceive you. Baba-Ahmed also addressed the crowd by summarising Obi’s remarks for the Hausa listeners. The LP presidential candidate and his campaign team later left the stadium some minutes after 4.00p.m. for a townhall with party leaders and members in the state. MEANWHILE, LP senatorial candidate for Plateau Central Zone in the February 2023 General Elections, Melchior Gowon, has given the party three days to publicly correct what he called “mischievous publication,” particularly depicting Chief Garba Pwul, during the rally in Jos, last weekend, as the senatorial candidate. Addressing journalists in Jos, yesterday, Gowon stated: “I am here to protest against the publication in the magazine of LP presidential campaign rally in Jos that circulated at the Rwang Pam Township Stadium, on January 20, 2023 entitled ‘A new Nigeria is possible’. This is a conspiracy against me and against the interest of the people of Plateau Central. It is my picture and name that is supposed to be in the magazine not that of Pwul. “Journalists and any Nigerian should google the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) portal. You will and see the final list of candidates nominated by the 18 political parties for all elections published on October 4, 2022 for the coming general elections and you would noticed that LP senatorial candidate for the Plateau Central is Melchior Gowon, not one Chief Garba Pwul.” Gowon added that he had already discussed with his legal team, who would take every legal step to correct the falsehood, in an attempt to mislead his supporters. He made it clear that he did not withdraw the mandate given to him by the LP to contest Plateau Central senatorial seat on February 25, 2023 and not contemplating doing so anytime. Efforts to have the response of Plateau LP Chairman, Grace Zamfara, proved abortive. 