With the very much-anticipated year finally here, the clock is already ticking to what will be an exciting year on all fronts, including on the political, sports and entertainment scenes. Aside the inevitable change of occupancy expected at Aso Rock in May, preceded of course, by the presidential election in February, there are, at least, two events that will definitely capture global attention by the end of the first half of the year. One could be inside the squared ropes in either the Middle East or somewhere in North London and that may not even hold till the second half of the year. However, the other is set to hold in Westminster. Unlike the uncertainty of the date of the expected blockbuster world heavyweight unification fight between World Boxing Council Champion, Tyson Fury and Oleksandr Usyk, the Ukrainian holder of the other versions of the belt, the coronation of King Charles III and Queen Camila is already cast in stone and is set for the first Saturday of May at Westminster Abbey. On the athletics scene, Tobi Amusan hopes to drive the fear of God down her rivals’ throats after her spectacular performance of 2022. With her name already in athletics book’s history by virtue of her performance at the World Championships in Oregon last July , the reigning and defending world sprint hurdles champion will fancy becoming a two-time champion in Budapest at the World Athletics Championships in August. The entertainment scene also has a lot in store, especially with Afrobeats. When making their debut at Royal Albert Hall in 2022, P-Square informed their fans that they would be back in 2023. Among those they hope to bring along to the O2 Arena is Tu-Face. But long before that show comes to the South East , former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu and his wife and daughter, would have stood trial at the Old Bailey, beginning from January 31. With the charges of conspiracy for organ harvesting hanging over their heads, the trio and their co-defendant will be hoping this cup passes over them sooner than later. 