Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Saturday urged the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) to ensure training and re-training of reporters to curb quackery and fake news. Sanwo-Olu made the call at the inauguration of the remodelled Lagos NUJ Secretariat and conferment of Grand Matron Award on Rev. Mother Esther Ajayi, Founder, Love of Christ Generation Church C&S. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Ajayi was honoured for moving in her construction workers to take over the remodeled secretariat project from 30 per cent and building it to completion. Sanwo-Olu, represented by the Commissioner for Information, Mr Gbenga Omotosho, stressed the need to go back to the basics to sustain the journalism profession. “All of us have to go back to the drawing board,” he said. The governor expressed worry at the infiltration of the media profession by untrained practitioners dominating the social media and running commentaries as columnists, thereby increasing misinformation and disinformation. Sanwo-Olu called for training and retraining of journalists to ensure good reporting of news and events in the nation and congratulated Lagos journalists on the remodeling of the edifice. The President of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Chief Chris Isiguzo, also urged journalists to use their reportage to promote development and unity of the nation during the 2023 general elections and beyond. Isiguzo thanked former Lagos NUJ council Chairperson, Mrs Funke Fadugba, immediate past Chairman, Dr Quasim Akinreti, and the incumbent, Mr Adeleye Ajayi, for their contributions in purchase and remodeling of the secretariat. He also thanked the government of Lagos State for financial support towards the project and commended Rev. Mother Esther Ajayi for her generosity of taking over construction from 30 per cent to completion. “We have decided to name the conference hall of Ladi Lawal Press Centre after you,” he said. The president, while conferring Grand Matron Award on the reverend mother, said that the union, in the past, usually relied on government and its agencies for support, but she had changed the narrative. He said that she had given journalists the befitting edifice to give them “a unique sense of identity”.