A study carried out by Network of Female Professionals in Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (FEMinWASH), has revealed that Nigeria looses N207 million ($517,524) annually to the non-functionality of boreholes. According to the study, the non -utilization of the national strategy for Village Level Operation and Maintenance (VLOM) by contractors and technocrats has resulted in waste of scarce resources that can be used to improve water supply to repair broken down water infrastructure. The Chairperson of FEMinWASH Dr Boluwaji Onabolu reeled out findings on the sustainability of water supply carried out by WASHMATA initiative in partnership with the Bank of Industry and the FCT Rural Water and Sanitation (RUWASA) at a press briefing yesterday in Abuja. She said the study findings indicated that for every 100 boreholes that are not functional about $517,524 is lost, if it’s a motorized borehole about $478,950 is lost, but if it’s handpump, about $38,574 is projected to be lost. While calling for the inclusion of women in the operation and maintenance of water facilities, Dr Onabolu revealed that study findings have shown that lack of gender participation was affecting WASH service delivery in Nigeria. According to her, the inclusion of women in the operation and maintenance of water facilities would go a long way to promote sustainability and overall improvement of lives for the populace. She recalled that the WASHNORM survey 2021, notes that 61 percent of water supplies assessed were stressed and non-functional adding that rapid population growth is one of the reasons for the reduction in percentage access as over 30 million people gained access between 2019 and 2021’’. She said poor sustainability of water supplies was another reason for the inability of the sector to make the expected remarkable progress towards Sustainable Development Goal 6.1. The chairperson noted that implementing the National Village Level Operation and Maintenance (VLOM) strategy was crucial for rehabilitating and repairing broken-down water infrastructure, especially in rural areas. Executive Director, FCT RUWASSA Dr Mohammed Dan-Hassan,  said the agency has mapped out strategies for solving all WASH challenges in the FCT. While commending the efforts of FEMinWASH, Dan-Hassan said prioritizing access to water and sanitation would enable Nigeria meet its SDG targets before 2030. Ms. Kucheli Augustine, a representative of the Environmental Health Council of Nigeria, said the partnership with female environmental health officers was crucial, for advocacy and impact. She noted that the lack of sustainable practices in water and sanitation service delivery was causing the nation huge revenue losses. 