Amid pomp and pageantry, Jamuhiyat salat Niyass Society of Nigeria (JAMSAN), bestowed Queen Mother, Amina Temitope Ajayi (aka Mama Diaspora) with the title ‘Iya Adinni of JASMAN’. The event, which was basically meant for the conferment of the Iya Adinni title, featured the group’s yearly Maolud Nabiyy and fundraising for Modinat Pap Sheikh Tijanni Nyass Mosque. Speaking at the turbaning and award ceremony, the Amir of JAMSAN, Sheikh said Mama Diaspora was conferred with the title due to her philanthropist engagement in the society. “ Mama is mother to all and we decided to adorn her with a title due to her love for humanity. She is up to the task, a mother to all.” He assured that Mama Diaspora would live up to expectations with a positive legacy, as the recipient of the noble title, IyaAdinni of JASMAN. The Iya Adinni of JASMAN, Queen Mother, Amina Temitope Ajayi, appreciated the group for honouring her with a title, noting that the position is not a joke as she must brace up to ensure women are well-informed and empowered. “Today, to the glory of Almighty Allah, I’m fortunate to be honoured with the title ‘Iya -Adini of JAMSAN’, which means leader of women. Though this is not the first I’m attaining such a position to lead women. I have represented women on an international level at the United Nation. Also, the Former President of Nigeria, Goodluck Jonathan, has invited me to participate in the 2014 conference to amend the constitution. I represent Nigeria women of the 35 per cent affirmative action.” She urged Nigerian women to wake up from slumber and live up to their responsibilities. “Nigeria women wake up, the way you present yourself to society, is the way the society will accept you. Ajayi  added that she is an ardent supporter of the APC presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu due to the support he render to her when he was the Chief Accountant of Mobil as men in the Oil business want to frustrate her out of the system. Many believe that the crude oil mining business is majorly for men. She advised Nigerians not to see politics as a do-or-die affair. “Politics is not a do-or-die. Nigeria women should embrace one another. The love shown among Nigerian women is not too good. I don’t like when Nigerian women have complexes, it is wrong we are very educated. That is why I’m an advocate of young adult women.” Ajayi suggested that Nigerian youth should be given opportunity in governance. “There should be youth ministers for agriculture, youth mister for finance, sport, housing, works. Let us start engaging our youths and women.  I’m actively involved in politics due to my love for my fellow women and youths, Nigeria should wake up, we all struggle for democracy and we must reap the dividend by voting for the right candidate.