Stefano Tsitsipas of Greece progressed to the quarterfinals of the ongoing Australian Open by defeating Italy’s Jannick Sinner 6/4, 6/4, 3/6, 4/6, 6/3 on a day that saw the exits of many seeded players in the men’s and women’s draws. The first shock of a stormy seventh day in Melbourne was the 6/4, 6/4 loss by Poland’s Iga Swiatek to the reigning Wimbledon champion, Event Rybakina of Kazakhstan. That was followed by Latvia’s Jelena Ostapenko’s 7/5, 6/3 upset victory over seventh seeded Coco Gauf of the United States. Commenting on her victory, Jelena said: “She (Coco) is a great player and young. I came into the match with nothing to lose and just wanted to make things difficult for her. I’m glad that I won.” In the men’s field, unseeded Jiri Lehecka of Czech Republic defeated sixth- seed, Felix Auger-Aliassime of Canada 4/6, 6/3, 7/6(2), 7/6(4). Also, in a marathon lasting five hours, America’s Sebastian Korda outlasted 10th-seeded Hubert Hurkacz of Poland 3/6, 6/2, 6/2, 1/6, 7/6 (10-7). Tsitsipas is the highest seeded male player remaining, after the exits of the top-seeded Rafael Nadal of Spain and the second seeded Casper Rudd of Norway. In the tennis battle of two players from Mediterranean countries, Tsitsipas won the first two sets and seemed headed for a quick victory, but the Italian turned the match around. Sinner broke his opponent’s serve in the third and fourth sets to force a decider. The two players served well. Stefano made five of 11 break opportunities, while Sinner converted only four out of 11. At the conclusion, the victor tallied a total 154 points to his opponent’s 151. Elena Rybakina had played short matches in the first two rounds, but faced stiff opposition in the third round before defeating America’s Danielle Collins in three sets. She served brilliantly against Swiatek and converted four out of six break opportunities. After the match, Swiatek said: “She served very well, as she always does. On occasions, I served into the sun and lost my serve. In the match, I was playing not to lose instead of playing to win. I have to work on my mindset.” Rybakina will face Jelena Ostapenko in the quarterfinals.