Lisa Marie has been buried next to her son Benjamin Keough in the Meditation Garden at Graceland, near her father Elvis. The singer-songwriter, who died last Thursday aged 54, was laid to rest in the family plot at the King of Rock and Roll’s Memphis mansion in a private ceremony. A public memorial for the mother-of-four will take place on Sunday at Graceland which will also be live streamed online. Elvis, his parents Vernon and Gladys, and Lisa Marie and Benjamin are all buried in the Meditation Garden, which is now a place of pilgrimage for ardent admirers of the icon. At 9 a.m. local time on Sunday, a memorial service will be held on the front lawn. There will then be a procession to see Lisa Marie’s final resting place. Presley was traumatised when she discovered her father dead at the age of nine; as a result, she grew up fearing her own mortality. She frequently discussed dying, even referring to the Graceland estate’s backyard as a “graveyard.” ‘How many people have a family grave in the backyard? How many people are reminded of their fate, of their mortality, every f**king day? All the graves are lined up and there’s a spot there, waiting for me, right next to my grandmother,’ she told Playboy in 2003. Many members of the Presley family also passed away from heart diseases, including her father, who passed away in 1977 at the age of 42 from cardiac arrhythmia with ventricular fibrillation, a condition in which the heart beats abnormally before stopping. The LA County Coroner announced on Tuesday that the determination of her official cause of death would be delayed pending the findings of a toxicology test, which could take years to complete. Gladys Love Presley, her grandmother, passed away at age 46 from heart failure, and Vernon Elvis Presley passed away at age 63 from cardiac arrest. To commemorate National Grief Awareness Month in August of last year, Lisa Marie wrote an essay about the passing of her son Benjamin who shot himself in July 2020 aged 27. 