Professor Christopher Imumolen, the presidential candidate for the Accord party, says that if he wins the much anticipated presidential elections taking place next month, he will choose his cabinet in accordance with the all-inclusiveness principle. Imumolen believes that in order to repair a country like Nigeria, which has been severely damaged by years of bad governance and corruption, all Nigerians, including his fellow presidential candidates Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Peter Obi, must play a role. Tinubu is the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), while Obi is the flag bearer of the Labour Party. In his attempt to build an economically sound country where every Nigerian would feel loved and wanted, Imumolen says he would solicit the help of the best brains in every field of human endeavour to come and contribute their quota. “The task of rebuilding our country is an onerous one. It is not going to be a one-man show. Everyone who has the idea, capacity to add value to governance, no matter their background or party affiliations, shall be called upon to do so,” Imumolen said on Sunday. “For his adeptness and aptitude as a businessman of no mean standing, I will be appointing Peter Obi, the current Labour Party presidential candidate, as my minister of trade and commerce, while Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu will serve as an adviser, most probably on the political front for obvious reasons. “You will agree with me that these men will be most suitable in the roles I have earlier mentioned because of their track records in both their private and public lives. “As I have said, the move is meant to demonstrate that we are all partners in progress in our desire to see our country regain its lost glory, as well as deliver to its millions of citizens the true dividends of democracy. “The move is also meant to send the message that appointments will only be given to those who merit it in the kind of reformist government we are planning to run. “The concept of square pegs in square holes shall be the guiding principles of our government under the umbrella of Accord — the party that preaches oneness and togetherness,” said the 39-year-old Imumolen, the youngest candidate in the 2023 presidential race. 