•As Eximia Realty unfolds Fiona Lawton Apartments Given the increasing population and demand for decent and affordable shelter, Lagos State government has called for partnership with the private sector to bridge housing deficit in the state. The Chief of Staff to the governor of Lagos State, Mr. Tayo Ayinde, made the call at the commissioning of Fiona Lawton Apartments, built by Eximia Realty Company Limited to boost the mid-tier segment of the housing market in the country. He commended the firm for taking advantage of the opportunities and conducive environment provided by Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration for private enterprises to thrive, especially in the real estate sector. Ayinde said government alone couldn’t meet all the housing needs of the citizens. “This is why the administration has embraced a global housing policy that, among other objectives, seeks to explore innovation and partnership with the private sector to bridge the housing deficit in the state,” he said. According to him, the strategy has yielded the completion and commissioning of 16 housing projects in different parts of the state, adding that the provision of decent, safe and affordable shelter remains a key goal for governments including that of the current administration. Ayinde emphasised the need for all players in the built industry to avoid undermining established rules, processes and procedures to prevent incidents of collapsed buildings and resultant loss of lives and properties. He also commended the company for ensuring strict compliance with relevant laws and guidelines, which is attested to by the certificate of fitness for habitation issued by state’s building control agency for the estate. The founder/Chief Executive Officer, Eximia Realty Company Limited, Hakeem Ogunniran, said in-spite of the acute macro-economic headwinds occasioned by the odds and COVID- 19 pandemic, devaluation of the naira and general instability in the polity, the company delivered on its promise to customers. “In consonance with our strategic positioning, we conceived of this project as a unique offering for the mid-tier segment of the housing ecosystem, with a target market comprising of young families, first time home buyers, millennials and empty nesters. “We were convinced, based on our empirical studies and consistent with the global real estate trends that ‘the era of mac-mansion’ is gone, of the robust opportunities in this uncharted ‘territory’ of the market,” he said Ogunniran said their 48-unit environment-friendly estate, comprising special design of studios, one and two-bedroom apartments, which resonated with the market is duly completed and fully sold. He stated that the company has developed a robust pipeline of projects including Eaglecreek, which is currently ongoing, Maestroville and Lakecity at pre-development stages, as well as undertaken elaborate land assembly at Yaba, Gbagada and Maryland to launch projects. The Managing Director of the company, Fred Akhigbe, said the development was done with sustainability effort, customer focus and quality delivery in mind. “These qualities engendered the design and construction methodology from inception to completion. “We paid particular attention to the structural stability of the development. Each of the blocks sits on 80 piles at a depth of 18 metres – about 240 piles in all. All the materials used were duly tested and certified by appropriate regulatory agencies at every stage of the development.” 