Sen. Bassey Otu, the All Progressives Congress (APC) gubernatorial candidate in Cross River, says he has the capacity and experience to take the state to the next level, if elected.
Sen. Otu made the statement on Friday during party’s rally in Yala Local Government Area of the state. He noted that Cross River was blessed with abundant natural resources, promising to harness the resources for the state’s development ,if elected. The APC candidate said that the present administration, led by Gov. Ben Ayade , had achieved much in building industries and infrastructure in the state. He promised to build on what had been achieved so far by the Ayade- led administration , to take the state to the next level. “When somebody does well we need to celebrate his efforts. It is not everything that should be politicised. “This government has done much in establishing industries across the state and all that is needed is to build on what has been done so far,” he said. He promised to complete all the projects started by the Ayade , adding that the projects were meant to improve the economy of the state and the people’s welfare. “In the Senate, I was Chairman, Banking and Finance committee, while in the House of Representatives, I was Chairman Oil and Gas committee. “With my experience as a lawmaker and as a successful businessman, let me assure everyone here that your welfare is paramount and I have the capacity and experience to take this state to the next level,” he said. Also speaking, Gov. Ayade, who is the candidate of APC for northern senatorial district, said he prioritised building of industries to create platforms for employment of teeming youths of the state in order to better their lot. “So many of our youths are graduating from school and it is wrong for someone to finish from school and come to be an okada driver. ” The industries would create employment for them to get jobs  and also help others. “Sen. Otu is a man of honour, he will keep to his word by continuing with the projects started by this government to better the lot of the people. “In politics, charity begins from outside and ends at home. In my first tenure, all the projects I initiated were outside my zone. “I want to call on Sen. Otu, who I know is a man of his word, to do same when he becomes governor so that his second tenure would be seamless,” Ayade said. The State Chairman of the party, Mr Alphonsus Eba, who received hundreds of defectors from the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) during the rally, said most of the structures of the opposition had collapsed. He called on all well-meaning people of the state to join the APC in building a better future for Cross River.