A FRONTLINE leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Akoko Edo in Edo North Senatorial District and former Senator representing Edo North Senatorial District at the 7th Senate of the National Assembly, Dr. Domingo Obende, on Friday called on all factions in the party to bury the hatchet, unite and work towards the success of the party ahead of 2023 elections. Senator Domingo Obende, who stated this at a unity meeting he called to harmonise factions of APC in Akoko-Edo with a view to working as a team, said, “Let the past belong to the past, and let us chat a new way forward. Our reconciliation today is in the interest of our people and party. “We should all know that there is no victor nor vanquished from the reconciliatory meeting as we are all winners, Akoko Edo people are the winners and our party, the APC is the winner. “We owe it a responsibility to our people, our party and ourselves to deliver APC candidates in the forthcoming election. I am now appealing to all aggrieved members to set aside their differences in the interest of delivering all APC’s candidates in the elections.” After deliberations on the way forward, the meeting that was well attended by the party leaders, members, aspirants at the just concluded primaries, among others who include, Godson Hayioye Secretary Edo Notth Campaign Council, Arch.  Daniel Obaro, the federal commissioner representing Edo State on the board of the National Population Commission, Dr. Tony Aiyejina, Chief Taiwo Akerele, the former Chief of Staff to Gov Obaseki, Hon Anslem Agbabi, Edo North APC Senatorial Chairman, Hon Akin Agbaje, Chief Chris Dirisu, Barr Chief Bisi Idaomi, Lady Adetutu Owolabi, Alhaji Usman Lamidi and Engineer Patrick Felix, all resolved among other things that APC as a united family in Akoko Edo has no reason not to deliver all its candidates in the 2023 elections. Obende charged party leaders to ensure they deliver their units, wards, and local government at large in line with the charge from the Presidential Campaign Council. Similarly, Paul Afagase, who contested for the House of Representatives, reiterated his commitment and that of his followers to put the primaries behind him and work towards delivering the party at all levels to APC. It was also agreed that the leadership should ensure meetings are held regularly and the need to inject more blood into the local government campaign council in the spirit of the achieved reconciliation. In his closing remarks, Comrade Peter Akpatason thanked everybody present for embracing reconciliation as committed party men while promising to work with all and sundry without any preference or bias. “This reconciliatory meeting has further affirmed that the APC in the local government is united and ready to deliver all candidates in the forthcoming election as substantial amount was equally raised to assist in the campaign operations that would eventually lead to our collective victory by special Grace of God and the power of the people of Akoko Edo,” Obende said. 