The Osun State Election Petition Tribunal has sacked Ademola Adeleke as the state governor and declared Gboyega as the winner of the governorship election. The tribunal annulled the election of Adeleke, candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), and declared that Oyetola, candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) seeking a second term in office won the July 16 Osun governorship poll. READ ALSO: Aregbesola reacts as Oyetola loses Osun governorship election Justice Tetsea Kume, while delivering a majority decision declared that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) did not comply substantially with the Constitution and the provisions of the Electoral Act. He subsequently deducted the over-voting observed from the votes scored by the candidates and declared that Oyetola won the election, having polled 314, 921, while Adeleke’s score came down to 290, 266. The judge directed INEC to withdraw Adeleke’s certificate of return and issued another one to Oyetola who won a majority of the lawful votes. READ ALSO: INEC declares Adeleke winner of Osun governorship election The decision of the judges is being read at the time of filing this report. INEC on Sunday, July 17 declared PDP candidate Adeleke as the winner of the Osun State governorship election. The PDP candidate won 17 of the 30 Local Government Areas (LGAs) in the Osun State governorship election. APC candidate Oyetola won in the remaining 13 LGAs, according to results announced by INEC on Sunday morning. In total Oyetola of the APC polled 375,027 votes while Adeleke of the PDP claimed 403,371 votes. Adeleke, a former senator and younger brother to the state’s first governor, Isiaka Adeleke, defeated Oyetola, by a margin of about 44,426 votes. Meanwhile, there were 13 other candidates that took part in the election including Akin Ogunbiyi of the Accord Party, Goke Omigbodun of the Social Democratic Party, and the former deputy speaker of the House of Representatives, Lasun Yusuf, who contested under the platform of Labour Party. 