…As Nigeria’s trade volume with China hits $26billion In a bid to increase foreign exchange earnings through agricultural export, the operator of the Nigeria Export Trade House in China, Zeenab foods is set to export 20 containers of ginger and sesame seeds to China valued at $1.5million. The exportation being carried out in partnership with the Nigeria Export Promotion Council (NEPC) is in preparation for the commissioning of the Nigeria Export Trade House in China by March 2023. The Managing Director of NEPC, Dr Ezra Yakusak, represented by Mr Babajide Falake, while witnessing the transport of the 20 containers to the seaport, disclosed that the council had launched three export trade house in Cairo, Togo and China, saying Zeenab Foods was appointed as operator of Export Trade House in China. He said there are plans to open export trade houses in London, America and Dubai. He said the warehouse was established in 2020, but due to Covid-19 restriction, the launching could not hold till after three years, mentioning that it would take 45 days for the goods to reach China, which was why the launching of the warehouse will take place in March. He said “we are calling on Nigerian small and medium enterprises who intend to export to China to take the advantage, saying the trade house is for all exporters, and urged them to link up with Zeenab foods. Falake said the Export Trade house in China is covering all the Asian countries including Malaysia, Hong Kong, adding that the market is a big one. The Chairman of Zeenab Foods, Victor Ayemere disclosed that 17 containers of ginger and three containers of sesame seeds are being exported to China in preparation for the commissioning of the Nigeria Export Trade House in China. Ayemere disclosed plans to export 300 containers of agric produce to China in the next 45 days, adding that with the trade house being commissioned, Nigerians must join hands with them to export goods to China so as to bridge trade gap between the two countries. The Representative of the Chinese Embassy, Allen Zhang revealed that Nigeria-China trade hit an all time high of $26billion in 2022. He said China has been assisting Nigeria to build infrastructure so as to connect the country to the global market, projecting that the future is Nigeria as they see a growing economy. He said they would work with NEPC to open up more markets to Nigerians to sell, saying they would help to increase export of more agricultural products to China.