The Senator representing Enugu North Senatorial District of Enugu State, Chukwuka Utazi, has assured the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its governorship candidate, Dr. Peter Mbah, of his peoples’ support in the forthcoming general elections. The ranking Senator gave this assurance, yesterday, at Ukpabi-Nimbo and Adani headquarters of Igbo-Ano and Ogboli development centres, respectively, at town-hall meetings organised by the governorship candidate to understand their needs as part of his vision for the state. Utazi, while commending the party for the choice of Mbah at a time the country is facing existential threats from socio-economic challenges, said God has answered the people’s prayer by sending a Daniel that’ll rescue the state. Describing Uzo Uwani people as full PDP supporters, the lawmaker expressed confidence that the ruling party will sweep the councils with wide margin.  He called on Mbah to carry his people along in his administration through massive investments in the area of agriculture.  He also called for engagement of youths in revenue yielding opportunities that will address unemployment, youth restlessness and injustice. Speaking earlier, the Chairman of the council, Chukwudi Nnadozie, House of Representatives member for Uzo Uwani and Igbo-Etiti Federal Constituency, Martins Okeh, as well as Dr. Romanus Ezike, Chief DNK Ogweli, Dr. George Ajogwu, and other community leaders affirmed their commitment to the PDP project, maintaining that the council has no opposition. While commending governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for bringing infrastructure development in the area, the people appealed to the governorship candidate to tackle insecurity and complete the Edem-Irodo-Ezikolo-Aji road, which links different communities to their farmlands. They also requested for the construction and equipment of vocational training and skills acquisition centres for their teeming youths and women. Extolling the manifesto presented by Mbah, the community leaders stated that they are comfortable to remain in the PDP, saying Mbah’s development plan will bring succour to them. On their part, a former chairman of the council, James Ademu, who spoke for Igala speaking-communities, Sir Vitalis Okonkwo, who represented the people of Ojo, and Mathew Idu, the Commissioner for Agriculture, described themselves as party loyalists, who had already settled for Mbah’s candidacy. 