Lassa fever killed a Nasarawa State medical doctor, Dr Ahmed Isaiah on Dec. 31, 2022, at the National Hospital, Abuja. Members of the Nigeria Medical Association (NMA) in Nasarawa State held a procession for the deceased in Lafia on Tuesday NMA chairman in the state, Dr Peter Attah, confirmed that the deceased Dr Isaiah died of health hazard-related issues, specifically Lassa fever. “As an association, we got information when he was already dead, but from our investigation, the sickness started like a fever, but he kept working even when he was on treatment. “While on call on Dec. 24, 2022, he collapsed at the theatre while carrying out surgery on a patient and his family had to rush him to the National Hospital, Abuja. “Unfortunately, we lost him,’’ Attah said. He added that a post-mortem confirmed that Dr Isaiah died of Lassa fever. Attah lamented that the deceased had to go to work and tried to carry out surgery on a patient even when he was sick as there were only two medical personnel at the General Hospital, Garaku, Nasarawa State at that time. “How can only two doctors handle an entire local government area of more than 150,000 population? Obviously, the workload was too much. “Government should employ more doctors and introduce incentives to curtail brain drain in the state,’’ he said. Attah added that the deceased who graduated five years ago died in his prime and left behind a wife, children and loved ones. The NMA chairman urged the Nasarawa State government to also increase hazard allowances for doctors and should immediately begin the payment of call duty allowances. Addressing the association, Dr Egba Edogo, Chief Medical Director at the Hospital Management Board consoled the association over the loss of Dr Isaiah who was an employee of the board. He noted the deceased was highly dedicated to his duty while alive and was good to those that worked with him. Edogo said that the board was still in shock over Dr Isaiah’s demise and prayed to God to give his loved ones the strength to bear the loss, forgive his shortcomings and grant him eternal rest. He said that the source of the Lassa fever was yet to be confirmed. Edogo advised healthcare workers to become more alert in identifying possible sufferers and to take precautionary measures when attending to them.