The Bola Ahmed Tinubu (BAT) Ambassadors have promised to mobilise at least one million voters in Lagos for the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, in next month’s presidential election. The state coordinator of the movement, Abdurrahman Lekki, who disclosed this in Lagos, yesterday, after the formal inauguration of the state, councils and wards executives, said the group is positioned to achieve its target. “All the central mosques, the local mosques and several organisations are with us and our target is at least one million votes. We are structured to deliberately mobilise people from other religions and also to collaborate. He said: “So, the collaboration we are doing is to say that even though we understand our differences, they really do not matter. We have a lot of Christian counterparts who are saying that this is where we want to go and they are with us. So ours is just the one million, they are also saying they’ll do one million, and we are in collaboration and networking strongly with them. “Asiwaju is the presidential candidate to beat, that’s our president in waiting. I am not sure there are other candidates who have any chances. What pedigree do they have? What network do they have? We are sure of winning this election; it’s ours.” The National Secretary of the movement, Prof. Abdulmojeed Alabi, who inaugurated the executives, said that BAT Ambassadors are fighting for the people who will make the country great. He described Tinubu as the best option for the country currently, saying: “We have seen what he is capable of doing. Having done it in Lagos; having been able to mobilise different calibres of people to do the right jobs at the right time, we feel that is the kind of person that we need for now. “We should move from house-to-house, from village-to-village, from street-to -street to ensure that we talk to ourselves that Nigeria needs to be moved forward, farther than where we are now. The man that can do the job for us is Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu.” Prof Alabi, who revealed that the BAT Ambassadors for the greatness of Nigeria is a political group dedicated to the election of Tinubu in 2023, said they believe in his capacity. “We believe he is the one to take Nigeria to higher place. But we cannot just sit down and expect that to be.”