Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, yesterday, declared he would not descend to the level of people with character deficiencies. In a statement he personally signed, the former Vice President said that having committed himself to the task of recovering and resetting Nigeria, he would not engage in personal attacks against his opponents. Titled, ‘I’m Irrevocably Committed To My Contract With Nigerians’, Atiku said: “I have since resolved not to descend to the low level of personal attacks and lies being peddled by my opponents nor will I join issues with those who, in an attempt to cover their character deficiencies, resort to mudslinging and gutter language, in a desperate attempt to disparage their fellow contestants.” Speaking on the need for restructuring, he said: “The reset of our education to drive our development agenda and the restructuring of our socio-economic and political structures will be defining efforts of my administration.” Atiku said he would “rather take the high road of dignity and statesmanship to continue to advance our manifesto, as we continue to inform the Nigerian people of how the Atiku-Okowa government intends to stop the slip into the abyss by a country that is so blessed with human and natural resources.” He said: “I will remind them about our past success when I served Nigeria meritoriously as the Vice President in the government that has been adjudged as the best, so far, since our return to democracy in 1999.” On his plans to develop the country, the presidential candidate said he would assemble a team of some of the brightest and best Nigerians that abound within the country and in the Diaspora. “To this end, my priorities shall include but not limited to unifying the nation to give every citizen that is a Nigerian, every state and every gender, religion and ethnicity a sense of justice, inclusion, equity and trust. “We shall also be preoccupied with resetting Nigeria’s battered economy, especially finding sustainable solutions to the recurring issues of debt management, deficits, subsidies and the flagging value of the naira. “The boosting of crude oil production, stoppage of oil theft and ramping up of non-oil exports to improve earnings are also top on my priorities.” He added: “Diaspora remittances will be given serious attention, particularly now that it has exceeded Nigeria’s earnings from crude oil to shore up our much-needed foreign exchange needs.”