• CAN predicts turnaround as HURIWA fumes, says Buhari’s message deceitful Ondo State Governor and Chairman of Southern Governors’ Forum, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, yesterday, said no politician could deceive Nigerians with religious sentiments because of the people’s political sophistication. “Let’s promote capacity over religious affinity. We must not jettison track records and established reach over shallow hatred. We are too sophisticated to be pawns in the hands of tricky politicians who play religion as a brand of politics. We must be decisive without succumbing to the whims of speculations and rumours,” Akeredolu said in his new year message, contained in a statement by Chief Press Secretary, Richard Olatunde. Akeredolu, who noted that 2023 is a “crucial year, especially in the life of our country,” added: “We must be deliberate in making the right choices. Our collective targets must showcase our respect for our diverse interests. “We must reflect on the yearnings of our people and protect the interests and sentiments that have kept us as one indivisible county. Let us embrace reason and truth. We must be unanimous in shunning cynicism and mistrust. Our chief objective must be competence in the choice of leadership.” President of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Archbishop Daniel Okoh, said 2023 would bring divine turnaround in the fortunes of the country. In his message, in Abuja, Okoh said: “While we look forward to having a better Nigeria, let us continue praying that the Lord will strengthen our current political leaders to oversee the elections and a successful transition to a new administration in 2023.” He explained: “CAN will continue to partner with government, civil societies and development partners to build a peaceful and prosperous country. “We remain non-partisan and will not interfere in the duties of government agencies, but will always promote and support good governance at all levels. CAN will, however, continue to raise prophetic voices, when and where necessary.” But Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) dismissed the new year speech by President Muhammadu Buhari as a last ditch effort by a failed President to deploy deceitful propaganda, with a view to embellishing a failed administration.
HURIWA alleged that the administration stood by while armed Fulani herdsmen slaughtered innocent farmers in different states of the federation. National Coordinator, Comrade Emmanuel Onwubiko, in a statement, asked the Attorney General of the Federation to explain why his office has not prosecuted alleged armed Fulani attackers. HURIWA said: “Has this government no shame and honour? Why reel out half-truths and outright lies as achievements of this failed government? Even when the President, around the last day of Year 2022, was busy composing his speech, armed Fulani terrorists were unleashing devastating violence on the people of Kaura Local Council of Kaduna State, killing over 48 farmers.”