• Inaugurates committee to review Ilesa varsity
• Says previous govt politicised project
• Group urges Oyetola, APC to accept loss, try in 2026 Osun State Governor, Ademola Adeleke, has affirmed his administration’s commitment to move the state forward in spite of the challenges inherited. He said that he would put in place necessary policies to stimulate growth and development of the state.
Adeleke gave the assurance, yesterday, when he received the leadership of the Methodist Church Nigeria at the state capital, Osogbo, for the yearly prayer session organised by the church. He said his administration would focus on programmes that would have direct bearings on the lives of citizens, reiterating commitment to lead the state out of the quagmire that past inadequacies dragged it to. Meanwhile, the governor has inaugurated an 11-man ad-hoc committee to review the establishment of University of Ilesa, saying that the previous administration politicised the project. The committee, chaired by Prof. Ashaolu Taiwo of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, was tasked to review and assess funding requirements for both capital and recurrent expenditures for the eventual take off of the university, among others, within six weeks. Also, a human rights group, Centre for Human Rights and Social Justice (CHRSJ), yesterday, told the immediate past governor of Osun State, Adegboyega Oyetola and the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state to forget about returning to govern the state before another governorship poll in the state. Executive Chairman of the group, Adeniyi Sulaiman, stated this in a statement made available to The Guardian in Osogbo. Suleiman urged Oyetola and his supporters to accept their loss at the 2022 gubernatorial election in good faith in the spirit of sportsmanship and prepare for 2026. He said that “thinking of manipulating the electoral and judicial process if Bola Ahmed Tinubu wins the presidential election to stage come back to power through the backdoor would not be fruitful for Oyetola because the law in respect of Electoral Act 2022 has settled everything and no president can manipulate such electoral process again.”