After her official resignation from the All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential Campaign Council (PCC), Kano State-born politician, Najatu Muhammad, has declared support for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential flagbearer, Atiku Abubakar. The Guardian also learnt that she further expressed support for other candidates contesting political offices across some other parties, devoid of party affiliation. Muhammad, sources said, is fervently in support of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) governorship candidate in Kano, Abba Yusuf. The source added: “In a clear move consistent with her recent struggles, Hajia Naja, as she fondly called, has equally declared support for Aisha Binani, APC governorship candidate in Adamawa State.” Muhammad resigned from APC and quit  her position as Director of its PCC last week. In her letter to APC National Chairman Abdullahi Adamu, she said: “In line with article 9.5 (i) of the Constitution of APC, I am writing to you to intimate you of my resignation from the APC. I am, by this letter, also informing you of my resignation as the Director of the Civil Society Directorate of the PCC.
“It has been a great honour working with you to contribute towards the building of our dear nation. However, a number of recent developments in the country’s political and democratic space make it impossible for me to continue with partisan politics. They require me to continue championing the struggle for a better country with a clear conscience, as I remain absolutely loyal to my dear country Nigeria.” In her statement on Saturday, Muhammad stressed that Nigerian political parties “have no ideological differences and are simply robes that politicians wear to serve their personal needs and interests at any given time.” She expressed commitment to support individuals that are truly interested in addressing the country’s challenges.
“To remain true to such commitments, one must be willing to take bold and decisive steps. Quitting party politics at this point in time is one of such steps.
“We all recognise that Nigeria is facing many challenges, including insecurity, poverty, inequality and lack of access to basic services. Such challenges require the consolidated efforts of competent and patriotic leadership across every level of governance,” she added.