Sports betting has become hugely popular among many Nigerians. As a result of this, there has been a high influx of betting operators in the country over the years, most of whom have their own handy apps. Betting apps have become very popular over the years as the number of mobile phone users increase. While it is a good thing to have multiple options to choose from, it sometimes is a difficult task picking the very best. A list of the best betting apps shows several of the trusted operators in Nigeria and the unique offers that they provide Below is a breakdown of the best sports betting apps for players in Nigeria. Betway app Betway was founded in 2006 and has consistently grown in popularity over the years. They are known for their simple design and user-friendly interface which makes for easy navigation, while also boasting a betting app for iOS and android devices. The Betway app also boasts a solid sportsbook that covers all the popular sports from around the world and even the obscure ones. You can try your hands at basketball, tennis, rugby, NFL or even snooker. In terms of freebies, the Betway app comes correct, offering a 100% welcome bonus up to 100,000 NGN to new users. There are also other offers like the accumulator boost and the free bet. All of this alongside competitive odds and vast markets makes the Betway app one of the best in Nigeria. 1xbet app Sports betting requires a solid sports book and as betting apps go, you would be hard pressed to find one better than the 1xbet app. They are renowned for having one of the most extensive sportsbooks among their contemporaries. Whatever kind of sports betting you are interested in is available on the 1xbet app. Their sporting events range from rugby to MMA, basketball, tennis, golf, volleyball and of course football. The large sportsbook comes with excellent odds, vast markets and multiple betting options. There are also several unique features to ensure you enjoy a memorable sports betting adventure. As if to match the vastness of their sportsbook, 1xbet boast an impressive welcome bonus which is among the highest around. The offer for new users is a 300% bonus up to 145,600 NGN, which means you get three times your initial deposit when you sign up. Bet9ja app Like the Betway app, the Bet9ja app prides itself on its simplicity as its user-friendly makes for easy navigation through the different sections. While their sportsbook is not as extensive as some of the ones on this list, they boast an impressive app that more than caters to the basic needs of the average player. One of the more impressive features of the Bet9ja app is its dedication to local Nigerian content. From international matches involving all the national football and basketball teams, to the NPFL. The Bet9ja app also boasts a solid offer to new users that includes a 100% welcome bonus for sports betting when you sign up. This offer means you get a 100% bonus on your first deposit, ensuring that you do not risk too much of your own funds as a new player. Wazobet app A fun, lively and colourful app, Wazobet is easy to use and boasts a solid sportsbook that covers everything from football to basketball, tennis, darts and even water polo. They also have attractive odds while their extensive betting variety ensures your experience is an unforgettable one. As with most of their contemporaries, the wazobet app also boasts a welcome bonus. New users stand a chance of getting a 110% bonus up to 55,000 when they sign up and make an initial deposit on the wazobet app. While other operators go as high as 400 NGN, with just 50 NGN, you can bet on the wazobet app. Betwinner app One of the newest operators on our list having only been founded in 2018, Betwinner continues to gain increased popularity over the years. They appear to have something for everyone while also maintaining a simple app design that is easily navigable through the numerous sections. The sportsbook is solid enough and can compete with some of the best in the business. Players can bet on both the popular and obscure sports while also taking advantage of their high odds on numerous events. A generous welcome bonus is also an enticing proposition for new users as they offer a 100% bonus up to 100,000 NGN once you make your first deposit. This bonus comes with one of the most lenient wagering requirements around as all a player has to do is wager 5× the bonus amount on games with a minimum of 1.4 odds. Betwinner’s generosity is not just limited to new users as there are a number of promotional offers to reward loyal customers. The bonus for losing bets and the 100% bet insurance are some of the most popular among Nigerians. Parimatch Parimatch is one of the oldest betting apps on our list having been founded in 1994. This means they hold plenty of experience in the gambling industry and know just how to satisfy the user’s gambling needs. The Parimatch app also has a solid sportsbook that can stack up against some of the best in the business. Sports betting on the parimatch app is not just limited to events as there is a thriving virtual section that is quite popular among serious players. Users can also make bets on e-sports like the popular FIFA game on PlayStation. Parimatch also has a solid live betting feature which allows players to make wagers on live sporting events as they happen. Live betting on Parimatch is not just limited to real life sporting events as users can also make bets on e-sports like FIFA, etc. Bet365 app Arguably the biggest and most popular name in sports betting in the world. Bet365 boasts millions of customers from almost every inch of the globe. While not as big in Nigeria, they can certainly hold their own against any name in the gambling industry It is a testament to their impressive service that despite their non-acceptance of the Naira, they continue to make in-roads in Nigeria. The reason for this is that they tick most of the boxes when it comes to choosing an online betting platform. While their sportsbook is among the best in the business, one of the most impressive things about Bet365 is their live streaming service. Players get the opportunity to watch live sporting action from anywhere in the world once you are a registered user. The Bet365 app also boasts a welcome bonus which offers you up to $30 in bet credit when you make your first deposit. 22bet Like Betwinner, 22bet was also founded in 2018, making it a relatively new betting app. However, it is quickly growing into one of the most popular betting platforms and has become a household name among Nigerian players. Their large sportsbook is quite impressive while the high odds appears to be making them a big hit with serious players in the country. If you like freebies, then their multiple generous bonuses and promotional offers will be appealing However, some of the most impressive features of the 22bet app include the accumulator boost and long-term bets as well as the 22bet shop which offers something that few of their competitors do.   