•  Rescue Workers Recover 14 Bodies, Six Still Missing
Following the recent boat mishap that affected no fever than 100 rice farmers, the Kebbi State All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate, Dr. Nasiru Idris Kaura Gwandu, has donated N5m to the families of the victims. Gwandu announced the donation, yesterday, when he paid a condolence visit to the victims’ families. He assured them of the government’s commitment to rescue the missing persons. Meanwhile, rescue workers have recovered 14 bodies while six are still missing. The boat mishap, which occurred in Koko/Besse Local Council, on Tuesday, claimed many lives and property. It would be recalled that the boat was conveying the rice farmers to Samanaji, a riverside community, when it capsized. Already, 80 people were rescued, while the search for the six missing persons is on. Condoling with the victims during a sympathy visit to the village, the Kebbi State Governor, Atiku Bagudu, accompanied by Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, APC governorship candidate, Gwandu, and the former Kebbi State Governor, Alhaji Saidu Usman Dakingari, were in the community to commiserate with them over the accident. Bagudu warned boat operators to avoid night journeys and overloading, advising them always observe safety measures. He prayed for those who died and their families to bear the loss with fortitude. The governor commended those who rendered assistance towards the rescue of the boat passengers and ongoing search for the missing ones. “I am here with a top delegation to condole with you over the unfortunate boat mishap. We pray God to forgive all who lost their lives, and pray for the recovery of the missing ones,” he said. Earlier, the Council Chairman, Yahaya Bello, thanked the governor for the attention and care shown to the victims’ relatives. Bello said that search and rescue operations were still ongoing to see if more persons would be found. He commended Gwandu for donating N5m to the deceased families. The District Head of Dutsinmari, MuAllayidi Usman, who received the governor, appreciated him for the condolence visit.