 Yemi Alade | @yemialade Spotify, an online streaming platform, has announced Nigerian Afro Pop artiste, Yemi Alade as its ‘EQUAL Africa Artiste’ for January. Phiona Okumu, Spotify’s Head of Music, Sub-Saharan Africa, disclosed this in a statement on Monday, in Lagos. She said the Spotify EQUAL Africa programme seeks to provide female artistes with the support and resources to grow their craft and reach worldwide audiences through multiple playlists. According to her, the beneficiaries also receive off-platform guidance and tools to help take their music careers to even greater heights. “Spotify’s EQUAL Africa programme has kicked off 2023 by shining its spotlight on multi-talented Nigerian artiste, Yemi Alade. “Alade, a leading female Afro Pop artiste in Africa, is the latest musician to join the list of accomplished artistes featured on the EQUAL Africa playlist. “Yemi Alade is such a talented artiste who has already carved out a solid place in the music industry. “Spotify is looking forward to showcasing her talent to an even wider audience, and working with her to further map out her success,” she said. Okumu noted that Alade was no stranger to the spotlight, with four albums, an EP and hit singles such as Johnny, Shekere, Africa, oh my gosh, and Bum Bum, She said that her performances had lit up stages across Africa, Europe and the United States of America, performing for among others, the British Royal family but still a hit on the small screen. According to her, Alade is the first African female Afro Pop star to hit over 100 million views on YouTube and VEVO with her smash hit single Johnny, which is now the most viewed video from an African female pop star ever. She said Alade was also a multi-award winner, taking home the 2015 and 2016 MTV Africa Music Awards for the best female artistes and had been nominated for multiple BET and MOBO Awards. She noted that outside of her music, Alade is an actress and a UNDP Goodwill Ambassador who operates her own charity, the James and Helen Pathway Foundation. Responding, Alade said: “It is a great time to be alive, female artists have quadrupled in number compared to a decade ago. “The only thing we ask now, in this male-dominated industry, is for equal opportunities. “Equal opportunities to be seen, for our talents to be showcased, because, in the universe of music, there is no gender, only potential, creativity, and pure magic.”