SIR: Do you call this manliness or foolishness, anybody? To me it’s foolishness for the leading opposition party to be heading into the presidential election without settling their disputes with five of their governors. For the record, the PDP currently has 14 state governors, the ruling party, APC, 21 governors while APGA has one governor…all totally 36 governors for the entire country. The governors are very important to the parties as they are the leaders of the parties at the state levels as well as the main financiers of the parties. Parties, therefore, can only underrate their governors at their own peril! So I am surprised to see the PDP behaving as if they don’t care a hoot about going into an election without their five governors! I feel particularly worried for Abubakar Atiku, who in all probability, would be running for an election for the last time! The demand of the five governors is not something that can’t be met if the party wants to help Atiku realise his dream of becoming the president! To continue to insist that it’s only in the National Convention that a party’s chairman can be removed is begging the question. The saying of Jesus Christ is germane here: “The sabbath was made for man and not man for the Sabbath.” Christ here reminds us that the Sabbath day was meant to be a blessing rather than a burden to those who observe it. In other words, in our case, wherever we can be sure that the most valuable interests of a nation or a party require that we should decide one way, that way we ought to decide. No one will hang the PDP if only for the party to go into the election as a united house it asked Dr. Iyorchia Ayu, the party’s national chairman, to step down, so the position can go to the south! This is all the G-5, aka, Integrity Governors, are asking for.  Well, as they say, I can’t claim to be more Catholic than the Pope. There might be something Atiku knows that the majority of us don’t know, otherwise a word from him could have long settled this matter and bring everybody back on board. Well, one can only wish the PDP and its flag bearer good luck! For the G-5, their fate is at stake either way the election goes!
• Sly Edaghese wrote from Milwaukee, Wi, USA.