Fraud allegations tear group apart The leader and Chairman, Yoruba self-determination struggle, Ilana Omo Oodua Worldwide, Professor Wale Adeniran, has resigned as leader of the group, over allegations of fraud and embezzlement pending when necessary investigations are carried out. Adeniran’s resignation is coming on the heels of the resignation of the immediate past leader of the group, Professor Banji Akintoye, who left the group on Monday, December 5 2022. Akintoye’s resignation led to the emergence of Professor Adeniran as the new chairman. Similarly, Maxwell Adeleye, one time communication manager to the self determination group has also excuse himself from the group, saying, “In view of recent developments in the Yoruba self-determination struggle, I wish to inform all the Yoruba people worldwide that I have stepped aside and withdrawn from the agitation for an Independent Yoruba Nation under its current leadership with effect from January 6, 2023.” In a two-minute 33 seconds video uploaded on YouTube, yesterday, Adeniran said he stepped aside to allow, thorough investigation into the allegation of fraud leveled against him. The don said whoever has evidence against him or who might have sent money to the organisation through him should come forward with the receipt as proof of evidence and make it known to the public. Adeniran said he resigned his membership from the Ilana Omo Oodua Worldwide with a view to allowing thorough investigation, calling on Yoruba elders to set up a committee to execute the task. He said, “I want to use this medium to step aside as chairman and member of Ilana Omo Oodua Worldwide, I step down as the participant in the Yoruba Nation struggle so as to allow unfettered investigations of all these allegations.” Adeniran said in all developed parts of the world, “what they normally do is that, if there is an allegation against a public office holder, he or she will step aside to allow a thorough investigation. That’s what I’m doing right now. “I thank you all, and whatever comes out after the investigation should be made public. There shouldn’t be a secret there. They should publicise the outcome of the investigation because all Yoruba must know the truth about the fraud allegation involving the struggle. Thank you.” Adeniran added. In his withdrawal letter, Akintoye’s communications manager, Maxwell Adeleye, said, “May I inform members of the public that I stepped aside as the Communications Manager of Professor Banji Akintoye on August 5, 2022 and finally cut-off communication with the historian on October 31, 2022. I have also resigned my membership of Ilana Omo Oodua Worldwide effective from Monday, January 2, 2023. Meanwhile, notable members of the group and members of the Council led by High Chief Femi Afolabi, have rejected Adeniran and Akintoye’s resignations, saying, the duo were still recognised as leaders of the group.” This was made known at a briefing, yesterday, in Ibadan Oyo State, where Afolabi disclosed that the leadership of the group have met with the people concerned on the matter. He said the leadership quality of Prof. Akintoye enhances his revalidation and reaffirmation as the leader of the group till date.