The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has arrested 47 Point of Sale ( POS) agents in Abuja for conducting the business on the streets and at other unapproved places. Mr Ikharo Attah, Senior Special Assistant to FCT Minister on Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement, made the disclosure in a statement he issued on Sunday in Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the FCT Administration recently warned that indiscriminate activities of POS operators, especially on the streets and in non-commercial areas would no longer be condoned. The administration also declared that there were intelligence reports and complaints by residents that strange people were roaming about some neighbourhoods, pretending to be POS operators. Addressing the 47 arrested operators at the premises of Abuja Environmental Protection Board (AEPB), Attah said the FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello, had no plan to stop POS business, but was concerned about security issues surrounding it. The minister’s aide said the arrested operators might face a Mobile Court as they had violated some environmental laws, for operating their businesses in unapproved places. He explained to them that POS business was not illegal, but operating outside commercial zones and indiscriminately in residential areas was an offence. “Reports on the arrested operators will go to the minister to determine if they complied with the rules of the city which would not give criminals the shield to disguise as POS operators,’’ he said. The Assistant Director, Enforcement, AEPB, Malam Kaka Bello noted that environmental laws of the city forbade business activities at residential areas and on the streets. Bello noted that AEPB enforcement team was prepared to give effect to restrictions on POS operations. He explained that those who operated at commercial places would have no problem with the team, but violators of the restrictions would be made to face the law. One of the arrested operators, Mr Solomon Wari, a civil servant said he was arrested in front of his business centre within a residential area. While he vowed to desist from operating on the streets, he noted that he was in the business to support his family. 