As part of efforts to cushion the effect of the 2022 flooding in Delta State, residents of riverine communities in Isoko South and Ughelli North Local Councils, have received relief materials from the Coca-Cola Foundation, in partnership with Whitefield Foundation, an indigenous not-for-profit organiaation that has been in existence since 2003. The relief materials were received at Igbide by the President-General of the Voice of Igbide People (VOIP), Dr. Ufuoma Ekeaba. In Aviara Kingdom, the Isoko South local council Chairman, Victor Asasa received the relief materials while in Uwheru Kingdom, they were received in full view of town leaders and community representatives at the palace of His Royal Highness, Ajuwe Simpson Sapele, Obruche II Odio Rodeae, Uwheru Kingdom of Ughelli North council area. Set aside as relief materials for the communities are: family unit food packages (Rice, Garri, and Eggs); water purifying agents to help prevent outbreaks of potentially water-borne diseases. For the farmers, Whitefield Foundation donated 400,000 cassava stems. The beneficiaries also received 100 Cartons of Bottled Water and 100 cartons of Fruit Juice, courtesy of the Nigerian Bottling Company. Speaking on the occasion, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Whitefield Foundation, Mrs. Funmi Johnson lamented the negative impact of the flooding on the affected people. The agency, she said, is committed to poverty eradication amongst the underprivileged, the women, and the youth. In her words, “We visited the flood-affected communities in the state like Owodokpokpo, Ekpo, Uruwhre, Egbo, Oteri, Iloge/Urovor and Ubini-Atai to ascertain the level of damages wrecked by the flood. 2022 flooding experience was adjudged the worst in recent years. We are targeting to reach at least 2,500 families, with an average of six persons per family making 15,000 residents in the affected communities.” During delivery of the relief items to Igbide Kingdom, Uwheru Kingdom, and Aviara Kingdom, the communities were also educated on how to stop the spread of waterborne diseases and other communicable diseases as water purifying agents were presented to them. The President General of Igbide People in Isoko South local council, Chief Ugolo Egbaoghene, as well as the President-General of Uwheru Kingdom, Mr. Macpherson Igbedi lamented the heavy impact of the flood on their several local governments.
They both agreed that the intervention is quite timely as cassava stems, being very scarce and expensive to come by in their words, have now become “Diamond” and “Gold”. It is hoped that these donations would go a long way in alleviating the people’s suffering and restoring them to an active and rewarding livelihood that was severely impacted. The intervention will help the agricultural based community, recover from the flood disaster and reclaim its subsistence livelihoods. A follow-up plan has been developed for January 2023 to track the beneficiaries’ progress. 