President Muhammadu Buhari has declared that no single government could solve the problems confronting Nigeria, noting that it will take combined efforts of successive administrations to address the challenges. Represented by Secretary to Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, the President, who spoke yesterday in Abuja at the State of the Nation Dialogue, with the theme, “Security, Economy and Administration of Justice, organised by the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), reminded lawyers that they have a responsibility towards a smooth running of the country. His words: “This is the direction to go. I want to thank you for restoring the hope of Nigerians. I want to believe the Bar would provide the necessary leadership. I hope that in the course of the discussion, we would be able to bring out a playbook that would provide the guided processes for the incoming regime. “I will say that no one government in this country would be able to solve the problems of Nigeria. But as we build on the precedent set by successive governments, not discarding completely what has been put in place, we would in the course of our desire to build a Nigeria of our dream, be able to pick one or two things on which we can concentrate. “As a government, the outcome of this dialogue can be transmitted to us so that whatever resolutions are reached will become part of the documents that we will prepare as we transit and hand over to an incoming government.” Also speaking, Kebbi State Governor, Atiku Bagudu, stated that fixing primary education was a sure way of addressing insecurity in Nigeria. NBA President, Yakubu Maikyau (SAN), expressed the need to continuously engage government at all levels to provide Nigerians with sufficient information to guide them in the choice of leaders. According to him, Nigerians must be satisfied with the practical solutions being proposed by those seeking elective offices with regards to current security, economic and political challenges confronting the most populous black nation.