Download logo The training program “Introduction to Disaster and Emergency Response” was organized for 30 healthcare providers in Niger, as part of the Emergency Medicine Capacity Building Program (ATKAP), supported by Turkish Cooperation and Coordination Agency.  Health and hospital services are extremely insufficient in Niger, which is one of the least developed countries with a significant portion of the population living below poverty line, according to the United Nations (UN). While terrorist attacks in Niger have recently made headlines, the government has difficulty in serving victims due to its limited emergency response capacity. The training program “Introduction to Disaster and Emergency Response” (ADG) has been organized in many African countries, including Niger, as part of the Emergency Medicine Capacity Building Program (ATKAP), which was launched in 2017 by the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Türkiye and TİKA for emergency health professionals in the member states of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC). A total of 45 local healthcare providers, including 5 from Niger, who were successful in these programs, have become “Trainers” after completing a series of training courses in Türkiye. “Introduction to Disaster and Emergency Response” TİKA, Niger Maarif Schools, and Niger-Türkiye Friendship Hospital held the two-week training “Introduction to Disaster and Emergency Response” for 30 emergency health professionals working at Niger-Türkiye Friendship Hospital. Nigerien trainers who had previously taught several training courses under the supervision of Turkish specialists trained their Nigerien colleagues in Niamey, the capital of Niger, by their own means, without needing any financial support, this time. The closing ceremony held for the training program was attended by Özgür Çınar, the Republic of Türkiye’s Ambassador to Niamey; Alidou Soumana, Director of the National Hospital of Niamey; Tanju Polat, TİKA’s Coordinator in Niamey; İbrahim Duman, representative of Nijer Maarif Schools; and Nursen Atasoy, Chief Physician at Niger-Türkiye Friendship Hospital. In his speech at the ceremony, Ambassador Çınar noted that he believes the training programs held as part of ATKAP are important for improving the quality of health services in Niger. Support for training programs will continue in 2023 The training programs held as part of ATKAP aim to improve the professional skills of emergency health professionals in beneficiary countries, train professionals to train local healthcare providers, and support efforts to increase human capacity in the field of health. The support for these programs will continue in 2023, and hundreds of emergency health professionals working in different parts of Niger will be trained. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Turkish Cooperation and Coordination Agency (TIKA).