The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in Imo State, has asked the governor of the state, Hope Uzodimma, to explain alleged role of his administration in gunmen’s  attack on the home of the Spokesperson for the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP), Ikenga Ugochinyere, in Akokwa, Ideato Council of the state. The party maintained that the governor’s comment on the matter has not just betrayed his sympathy for the attackers, but has also exposed his knowledge of the attack prior to its execution. Gunmen had, on Saturday, stormed the residence of Ugochinyere, who is also the PDP candidate for Ideato Federal Constituency, and shot about three persons dead. Reacting to the carnage, Uzodimma accused Ugochinyere of violating an agreement, which he allegedly reached with the unknown gunmen.  Uzodimma also claimed to be aware of meetings between Ikenga and the gunmen. He alleged that the agreement was to the effect that elections would not hold in the South East. According to the governor, it was Ikenga’s breach of the agreement that led to the attack. But the party’s state Publicity Secretary, Collins Opurozor, described Uzodimma’s statement as false and misleading. The party said: “What this self-confession has established is that Uzodimma was aware of the attack even before it was carried out. He knew how it was conceived, planned and executed. By his admission, Uzodimma knows who the so-called unknown gunmen are. He knows where and how they met. He is privy to their agreements, documents and action plan. So, what is unknown about the gunmen if the governor could boast of knowing everything about them, including their meetings and their resolutions? “Imo PDP, therefore, insists that this watery defence, put up by Uzodimma, has further strengthened general belief that his administration has serious questions to answer over the attack on Ugochinyere.” It must be stated that Uzodimma’s failed attempt to link Ugochinyere with whatever group that doesn’t want elections to hold in the South East is a new dimension to his unending war against our candidate. “To be clear, and for the avoidance of doubt, Ugochinyere is a leading voice in pro-democracy advocacy in Nigeria. His participation in the 2023 elections began over two years ago with the establishment of Grassroots Development Forum, which is his political structure in Ideato Federal Constituency.”