The Kingdom of Spain has honoured former Nigerian Ambassador to Spain, Ademola Seriki, with a Posthumous Award. Seriki died On Thursday, December 15th, 2022 while serving as Nigerian Envoy to Spain. The Civil Merit Award was delivered to the family of the deceased diplomat by the Spanish Foreign Minister, Jose Manuel Álvares, in Abuja on Thursday. Wife of the late envoy, Mrs. Wosilat Seriki, and his son, Mr. Wale Seriki, received the Award on behalf of the family. The Spanish Minister was in Nigeria as part of the efforts to deepen bilateral relations with Nigeria on issues of security, renewable energy, agriculture, maritime security, trade and investment. In his remarks during the ceremony, Nigeria’s Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, said the late Seriki bagged the Award in recognition of the enormous efforts he made in strengthening the relationship between both countries and moving it to another level. “This morning, the Minister came and personally on behalf of the King of Spain presented a posthumous National Honor to Ambassador Ademola Seriki which was received by his wife and his son and this really showed not just the appreciation of the Spanish government for the excellent work Ambassador Seriki has done to Nigeria but the appreciation of his personal qualities,” Onyeama stated. In her response, the widow of late Ambassador Demola Seriki, Mrs. Wosilat Seriki thanked the King of Spain, His Majesty, King Filipe (the sixth) for the honor bestowed on her husband. She also saluted the Minister of Foreign of Spain, His Excellency, Jose Manuel Albares and his delegation for taking time to be a part of the ceremony. “I also want to specially thank the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari and the Foreign Affairs Minister, Mr. Geoffrey Onyeama for deeming my late husband worthy and appointing him as the Ambassador of Nigeria to Spain. “My husband worked very hard throughout his lifetime and was a man who prioritized serving his country, even in his last days. He was truly a patriot. “Our experience in Spain was a once in a lifetime experience and I am eternally grateful to the team at the Spanish Embassy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Abuja for working with us daily to promote Nigeria in Spain. On behalf of Ambassador Demola Serikis’ Family, I say thank you.” 