Terra Seasoning Cube, from the stable of TGI Group, is well known for the value it adds to cooking, which includes pleasant aroma, exciting taste and flavour. This fact was brought to the fore recently, when the seasoning was adjudged the Outstanding Seasoning Cube Brand of the Year, at the National Quality Conference, Exhibition and Award held at the Radisson Blu Hotel, Ikeja, Lagos. Allied Integrated Promotions Management Limited, organizers of the event, said the award was a result of a competitive public poll it conducted among seasoning consumers across Nigeria, who overwhelmingly chose Terra Seasoning Cube for it’s unique taste, exciting aroma and flavour. Seasoning cubes are a staple in almost every Nigerian kitchen with millions of them sold every single day. The feat achieved by Terra Seasoning Cube in four years of existence in the Nigerian market is an indication of the superior value the brand offers to consumers. This is as a result of the wholesome, carefully sourced essential ingredients used in the production of Terra Seasoning cubes in order to meet the Nigerian consumers palate requirements. Deepanjan Roy, Group Executive Director – TGI while expressing his gratitude for the award and recognition stated that it is a testimony to the high quality of products associated with the company, a major factor that has endeared it to the Nigerian consumers. He also noted that the award validates the company’s resolve to ensure that Terra Seasoning Cube continues to be admired for its unique taste, exciting aroma and flavour. “We are truly humbled by this award”, Roy said. “For us at TGI Group, it is a privilege not just to maintain the quality that has made Terra Seasoning Cube the number one choice of consumers in 2022, but to work harder to ensure we maintain the quality and standard that would continually make the brand the first choice of consumers.” Probal Bhattacharya, Chief Marketing Officer-TGI Group, said the award of Outstanding Seasoning Cube Brand of the Year given to Terra Seasoning Cube would further motivate the organisation to strive for excellence in the foreseeable future. He expressed delight at consumers’ ever growing preference for the brand, a development that is indicative of the fact that Terra Seasoning Cube packs in that special magic that makes food cooked with it so very special. “We do not take this award for granted”, said Bhattacharya. “The award is just an assurance to us that we are on the right track to achieve the objective of providing consumers a seasoning that adds quality and value to their lives.” Terra Seasoning Cubes are made up of wholesome, carefully sourced essential ingredients specially designed to meet the discerning Nigerian consumers’ needs in every meal, offering unique taste, exciting aroma and flavour for that distinctive cuisine experience. Every meal cooked with Terra guarantees an enjoyable meal and a rich signature homemade taste experience. Available in Beef, Chicken, Shrimp and Jollof flavours, in various consumer-friendly pack sizes nationwide. Tropical General Investments (TGI) Group is an international investment and holding company with diversified interests and investments across Africa, The Middle East, Asia and other emerging markets. TGI’s investments focus on driving inclusivity and value addition using locally sourced raw materials, state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities and a highly skilled workforce to produce world class products that are consumed both locally and exported to global markets. Across markets, TGI Group owns over a hundred leading brands in Fast Moving Consumer Goods, Agricultural Inputs, Industrial Chemicals, Homecare Products and Pharmaceuticals.