The Presidential Candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has dismissed any insinuation of friction in his relationship with President Muhammadu Buhari, saying his support for the president is unalloyed and enduring.
Addressing APC rally in Gusau, the Zamfara State capital, yesterday, Tinubu promised to tackle problems bedevilling the state and enhancing agricultural productivity. He thanked the people of Zamfara State and key party leaders for the warm welcome and their continued support for the APC. A statement from Tinubu Media Office, signed by Abdulaziz Abdulaziz said in his prepared speech, which he could not read because of massive crowd, Tinubu said “I have supported President Buhari even before his first day in office. I will continue to be his supporter and friend after his last day in office.” He said President Buhari is leading the nation with courage and selflessness.
“He tackled the problems other leaders ran from. He has earned a place in history that cannot be denied.
“I have said this before and will say it again now: when the true history of this moment is written, President Buhari shall be treated very kindly because of his contributions to the nation,” he said. While taking a jab at the opposition, Asiwaju Tinubu described them as misguided politicians who don’t want greatness to happen or to last. “Their vision for Nigeria is the vision of one who cannot see. They seek to enrich themselves by making you poor. They want to eat everything so that you might go hungry. They want to own everything but leave you with nothing.
“We stand here today to affirm that our vision for a greater Nigeria will triumph over their blind vision for a broken Nigeria. Remember, where there is blind vision, there is also blind ambition.
“We will not allow their selfish games to overtake you. President Buhari has done his part to free Nigeria from their mean grip. Now we must do our part by freeing you from the selfish plans they have for you and our beloved land.