Urges attitudinal change amid battered image Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM), Abike Dabiri-Erewa, yesterday, said that Nigerians were not fraudsters and drug peddlers as portrayed on the international scene. She said that one of the major challenges confronting the country had been its battered image in the international community, which must be promptly addressed by Nigerians. The former member of the House of Representatives stated this during the inaugural launch of the Akure Primerose Club, held at the International Culture and Event Centre (the Dome), in Akure, the Ondo State capital. Dabiri-Erewa, who emphasised that Nigerians are not as terrible going by the manner in which they are being judged outside the country, stressed that Nigerians must be the ones to right the wrongs themselves. She said: “One of the biggest problems we have in Nigeria is our image. We are not as bad as we are portrayed and we have to do something about it. Communication is the key.  What are we saying about ourselves to the world? This is very important. “We are not a country of fraudsters or drug dealers. We are good people. We are precious, determined, hardworking, passionate and excellent about what we do as Nigerians. That is who we are as Nigerians and most importantly, that is what you are as an Akure indigene. I look forward to working with you. And by the next time we are meeting, we will have a female version of your group. I will be glad to attend more of your programmes and projects. “I want to, particularly, thank my Diaspora brothers. What you are doing is what everybody should be doing. Getting those in the Diaspora to come back home and see what they can do to improve the situation of their various communities. “I am proud of what you are doing here today and I am happy to be with you for this programme. We are urging others to follow your footsteps in doing what you are doing here today.” On her part, the Ondo State Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Mrs. Bamidele Ademola Olateju, said the state had been working hard to ensure that the country attains its potential. Meanwhile, the club gave scholarship to three best secondary school students in the state. They include Boboye Kehinde Moses of Aquinas College, David Oreyemi Antonia of St. Louis College and Amire Oluwaferanmi of Aquinas College.”