…Urge Candidates To Accept Polls Outcome In Good Faith
Ahead of next month’s general election, religious, political and civil society leaders have charged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to prevent post-election violence by ensuring early announcement of results. The stakeholders also stressed the need for the electoral umpire to demonstrate neutrality and independence in the whole process, adding that the commission must also ensure that electoral materials are distributed early. The leaders, who stated this after a dialogue on inclusive security against electoral violence organised by the Global Peace Foundation in Abuja, also urged politicians to respect the wishes of the electorate and accept the outcome of the elections in good faith. The parley, which also had in attendance over 300 youth leaders, discussed areas of mutual concern and potential solutions to the multiple and overlapping crises facing Nigeria at the moment. A declarative statement made available to journalists in Abuja signed by the Country Director of the Global Peace Foundation, the Rev. John Joseph Hayab, yesterday, said participants at the inclusive security dialogue represented multiple faith traditions, ethnicities, geographies and ages, whereas the inclusive youth dialogue against electoral violence comprised youths representing the National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN), People Living With Disability (PLWD), National Council of Muslim Youth Organisation (NACOMYO) and the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN, Youth Wing). According to the statement, leaders across the country must ensure the legitimacy and stability of Nigeria’s system of government in recognition of the country’s status as the largest democracy in Africa. It noted that INEC must avoid poor coordination of any electoral process, noting that a lack of confidence in an electoral system breeds violence. It added that youths must be educated on the dangers of electoral violence to democratic stability. The document reads in part: “Taking note of the importance of the upcoming presidential election and the grave responsibility facing the candidates and whoever may win to unite the country and provide practical solutions and leadership on a wide array of issues of concern, the politicians need to desist from any inciting statements and call on their supporters to be peaceful and law-abiding. “They also need to accept defeat in good faith and magnanimous in victory for the common good of the nation and humanity in general. They also must put national interest above self and party loyalty. “Given the awareness that electoral violence and the threat of violence are used to disenfranchise voters and prevent their voices from being heard, their wills enacted, leading to a weakening of the government’s responsiveness to people’s concerns and greater political and social instability. “Therefore, INEC needs to demonstrate neutrality and independence in the whole electoral process. Ensure that electoral materials are distributed early for the exercise. Monitor and ensure compliance with the laid-down processes and announce winners or losers publicly without delay.” The leaders further called on security forces to ensure that all voting sites are secure and that plots to instigate violence are stopped before they can be committed. On promotion of religious freedom in the country, they urged religious leaders to be actively involved in peace dialogue given their influence in communities. The statement added: “Religious leaders need to honestly preach peace to their congregations and communities and work to promote mutual respect and understanding within and between faith communities. “Nigerians should be accepted everywhere they are in the country, irrespective of their faith traditions. The government and all development partners need to promote the delivery of quality formal and civic education. Nigerians must support the freedom of worship irrespective of one’s locality.” 