•Says Nigerians can’t entrust their future to Atiku, Obi
• Vows to give students credit facilities
• Assures Ondo people of deep seaport The All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential Candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, yesterday, appealed to Nigerians to make a wise decision on the candidate they would cast their votes for on February 25, 2023. While stressing that his main challengers, the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, and that of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi, could not be trusted to pilot the affairs of the country, Tinubu said that the two opposition candidates lacked an understanding of the country. The APC candidate spoke in Akure, Ondo State, during the presidential campaign of the party in the state. He emphasised that he would emerge the winner at the polls. He said: “Ondo is known as a progressive state, followed by other states such as Ogun and Oyo. I appreciate our progressive governors. This upcoming election is our own. It is the vote of inheritance. It is a vote of three to one. Don’t lose your Permanent Voters’ Cards (PVCs); your PVCs are your right. “Our rally is a signal of our renewed hope for Nigeria, that on February 25, you will make a wise decision. You will vote massively for me. I’m too sure and very sure that you will vote for APC. That’s why I’m very happy. I will win this election. “Atiku cannot do it; he doesn’t want to build a better nation; instead, he will rather sell your birthright to the highest builders and run away. Atiku’s policies and actions are nothing. “Obi had a chance to show up as progressive when he was governor of Anambra State, but all he could do was boast that he saved money when he was the governor. “Obi has nothing to be proud of. Instead, he made the people of Anambra to cry, and he claimed to be the party’s Labour leader.” My people, you cannot entrust your future or that of our nation to Atiku and Obi. What has Atiku brought to Nigeria? “Myself and my running mate, Shettima, are ready to bring renewed hope through empowerment to all of you. If you give me your mandate as you promised, I will work so hard that I will put money in your pocket.” Tinubu further stated, “I love what Governor Akeredolu has done in Ondo State. He has improved the infrastructure of Ondo State. We will work together with Ondo State to be an economic centre. We will develop the Ondo Deep Seaport. We will develop uninterrupted energy. “We will do more to develop Ondo State and Nigeria as a whole. We are a people of peace and prosperity. The educational sector will receive priority in our government. No children of the poor will be left behind. If you don’t have the money, we will establish a student credit loan so that you can go to school. You will be educated; you will be an expert.” On his part, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu said Ondo State, being a progressive state, would vote en masse for Tinubu while the National Secretary of the party, Iyiola Omisore, stated that “We are certain that Ondo State is an APC state. You should all vote for APC candidates during the election…” The rally, which attracted a mammoth crowd, was attended by Governors Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (Ondo), Babajide Sanwo-olu (Lagos), Dapo Abiodun (Ogun), Abdullahi Ganduje (Kano), former Osun State governor, Gboyega Oyetola, APC National Secretary Senator Iyiola Omisore, who represented National Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu; former Ogun State Governor Ibikunle Amosun, National Vice Chairman (South-West) of APC, Isaac Kekemeke, the Ondo State Party Chairman, Ade Adetimehin, among others . 