Group of Five (G5) Governors has been called upon to support the presidential bid of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and his running mate, Kashim Shettima as the 2023 general elections draws close. The G5 Governors, led by Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, have remained undecided on the presidential candidate to support following their fallout with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) standard bearer, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. Though Wike had told Nigerians the group would reveal their preferred candidate this January, it is yet to do so, three days to the end of the month. The APC, during  a briefing in Port Harcourt,  yesterday, said support for Tinubu was necessary  to enable him replicate the transformation he did in Lagos in the country. A member of the APC PCC in the state, Tony Okocha,  accused Rivers State APC governorship candidate, Tonye  Cole, of not campaigning for Tinubu and Shettima.
Okocha said since the APC in Rivers State has been enmeshed in disputes, the national body of the party should make the coming presidential campaign in the state a whole day event to settle the dispute in the state. “We request that the leadership of APC in Rivers State pursue a vigorous campaign for Tinubu or leave the scene for those willing to do so. “The leadership of APC in Rivers State should not discriminate against those ready and willing to work for Asiwaju/Shettima presidency, whether they are full-fledged members of the party or not. “We will work for Asiwaju/Shettima presidency  and we will win Rivers State overwhelmingly and not just deliver the 25 per cent required votes. “We call on G5 governors and other willing Nigerians to swing their support for Asiwaju/Shettima, to enable him (Tinubu) replicate in Nigeria the transformation in Lagos, which was a dungeon before 1999.” Coordinator of Tinubu/Shettima Independent Campaign Council in Rivers State, Mr. Wokocha Augustine, said the ICC alone would provide over three million voters for APC at the presidential election. “Already, we have 51 registered support groups, who will campaign in support of Tinubu/Shettima presidency. We will soon constitute 224,000 unit representatives across various units because we believe Nigeria will be better under Tinubu.” 