The newly appointed Director of Public Relations and Information (DOPRI), Nigerian Air Force (NAF), Air Commodore Wapkerem Maigida has expressed his commitment to sustain the ongoing media campaigns of the NAF aimed at gaining public support for its operations. The DOPRI said this on Friday when he took-over from his predecessor, Air Cdre Edward Gabkwet who is now the Commander 551 NAF Station, Jos. Air Cdre Maigida said, under his watch, the Directorate of Public Relations and Information will keep forging ahead with NAF media campaigns mandate, leveraging on the various media platforms to narrate the success stories of the force. The DOPRI noted that projecting the operational engagements and other activities of the NAF to galvanize public support and goodwill for the force is paramount. He urged the media to support the Nigerian Armed Forces in the quest to surmount the myriad of security challenges confronting the nation. “Bear in mind that for us to overcome the security challenges, there must be a genuine partnership between the NAF and the media,” he said. He further urged the media to remain steadfast as they continue to carry out their watch-dog function of informing and enlightening the public, bringing them to speed on happenings within the defence and security sector, urging them to use their reportage and medium to shape public perception and opinions about the NAF. He appreciated the immediate past DOPRI for achievements recorded during his tenure, adding that he will consolidate on the feats. He thanked the Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Oladayo Amao for his appointment as DOPRI. The former DOPRI, Air Cdre Edward Gabkwet thanked the media for their support throughout his tenure, urging them to accord the same support to the new NAF Spokesperson. Air Cdre Wapkerem Maigida, a member of 42 Regular Course of the Nigerian Defence Academy (NDA), was commissioned into the NAF in 1995. The senior officer holds Master of Science Degree in Security and Strategic Studies and Bachelor of Arts Degree in History both from NDA. He equally obtained a Post Graduate Diploma in Public Relations and Advertisement from the Nigerian Institute of Journalism, Lagos. Notable among the military courses attended by Air Cdre Maigida include: National Defence Course at the National Defence College Nigeria and the Air War Course at Air Force War College in Makurdi, Benue State. He attended the Junior Staff Course at the Armed Forces Command and Staff College, Jaji, Kaduna and the Senior Staff Course at the Air Force Command College in Beijing, China. The senior officer also attended the International Public Affairs Officers course at the Swedish Armed Forces International Centre in Sweden, Civil Military Relations/Cooperation Course at Indonesian National Defence Forces Peacekeeping Centre, Indonesia and the Deputy Spokesman Course at Joint Information Activities Group, Royal Air Force Base, Halton, United Kingdom. Prior to his recent appointment, Air Cdre Maigida was the Commander 551 NAF Station, Jos. The senior officer served as acting Director and Deputy Director Defence Information at Defence Headquarters, Deputy Director of Public Relations and Information and Deputy Director Civil-Military Relations both at HQ NAF. Air Cdre Maigida who is the 18th DOPRI, is a member of the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations. 