In this report, ADEYEMI ADEPETUN writes that realisation of MVNO in Nigeria would be a great deal for the sector and the economy this year. Year 2023 is expected to further stretch fortunes of the over $75 billion telecommunications sector, which today, has remained the major pillar of the Nigerian economy going by its significant contributions to the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP).  What is MVNO?
A mobile virtual network operator (MVNO) is defined as a wireless communication service provider that resells mobile network services bought at wholesale prices from mobile network operators (MNO), such as MTN, Globacom, 9mobile, and Airtel for discounted amounts to end users and customers. MVNOs carry out sales and marketing services but lack the network and core infrastructure to deliver network services; therefore, MVNOs depend on the host MNO to provide this.
  
According to the Draft Licence Framework, an MVNO is a licensed entity permitted to provide virtual network services, which include all network provisioning. The major difference between an MVNO and an MNO is that the MVNO does not have ownership of the spectrum elements, irrespective of its model of operation. Therefore, the MVNO depends largely on the infrastructure of a fully licensed mobile telecommunication service provider. Genesis of MVNO
FINDINGS by The Guardian showed that globally, MVNOs’ agreements with network operators dated back to the 1990s, when the European telecoms market saw market liberalisation, new regulatory frameworks, better 2Gnetwork technology, and a subsequent jump in wireless subscriber numbers with the innovation. However, in Nigeria, on August 11, 2022, the NCC notified the public that it would be issuing the MVNO License, which it said would improve the telecommunication output of the country, enable the expansion and availability of quality mobile coverage, and close the gap to the unserved/underserved Nigerian population.  Global operations and market worth
ACCORDING to Fortune Business Insights, the global MVNO market size is projected to rise from $67.54 billion in 2020 to $123.40billion in 2028, at a CAGR of 7.9 per cent during the forecast period,2021-2028.
   
As of June 2014, 943 MVNOs and 255 MNO sub-brands were active worldwide. This represents a total of almost 1,200mobile service providers worldwide hosted by MNOs, up from 1,036 in 2012.
   
Accordingly, GSMA Intelligence noted that between June 2010 and June 2015, the number of MVNOs worldwide increased by 70per cent, reaching 1,017 in June 2015.
    
As of December 2018, there were 1,300 active MVNOs operating in 79 countries, representing more than 220 million mobile connections—approximately 2.46 percent of the total 8.9 billion mobile connections in the world. The eight countries with the largest number of active MVNOs are the US with 139 MVNOs (4.7 per cent market share), Germany with 135 (19.5 per cent), Japan 83 (10.6per cent), UK 77 (15.9 per cent), Australia 66 (13.1 per cent), Spain 63 (11.5per cent), France 53 (11.2 per cent) and Denmark 49 (34.6 per cent).  Success Influencers
The success of MVNOs lies in so many things, according to WTL Wireless Technology Lab. These include, having a clear aim of the MVNO business and exit plan; identifying the target customer base and build acquisition strategy around it; create the products and services that are transparent and easy to understand; cultivate relationship with MNOs and negotiate right contracts with all partners; have a rural connectivity strategy to acquire captive customers.
    
In terms of innovation, WTL observed that MVNOs success is always in how innovative and forward looking they are and provision of M2M and low cost roaming services. 
    
According to the firm, corporate solutions like VPNs, IoT Network slicing can be MVNO revenue streams and can help to increase Average Revenue Per Users. It stressed that an MVNO has a real opportunity to improve lives and societies by opening up the benefits of mobile service to lower income families and smaller companies so that they can contribute to local economies. Where is Nigeria on the MVNO map?
The Guardian learnt that the NCC is on the final lap on the development of MVNO framework. In fact, it was learnt that the framework is currently awaiting final approval of the board through the EVC office. 