 Samuel Adeyemi Adedoyin, who is popularly called AyRubber, is a Nigerian broadcaster, on-air personality, voiceover artist and talent manager. The chance of success outside passion is oftentimes slim. It is why Jon Bon Jovi underscored its importance by emphatically stating that: “Nothing is as important as passion. No matter what you want to do with your life, be passionate.” The energy in his passion was what propelled the career of one of Nigeria’s highly distinguished media personality and On-Air-Personality, Adedoyin Ayomide Samuel, better known as Ayrubber. The media is a great tool and anyone who would sits either behind the microphone or camera must be an individual who wields a lot on influence, but must have equally paid the price as Ayrubber, who was born into a family of six, which comprises four siblings of which he is the second of two males and females. Adedoyin Ayomide Samuel attended First Foundation Nursery and Primary School, Ishaga, Lagos State, where he obtained his first school leaving certificate and proceeded to Agbado District Comprehensive High School, Agbado, Oke Aro, in neighbouring Ogun State, for his West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE). Having understood his calling and purpose, he got admitted into t prestigious Nigerian Institute of Journalism (NIJ), in Ogba, Lagos. With the picture of where he was heading in life vividly stuck on the wall of his mind, Ayrubber certainly knew how to get there. Recalling how his journey started in the profession before breaking into limelight, he stressed that he began to make the sacrifice for his future during his industrial attachment programme, which many take for granted. “I have given in to a lot of risks, but a notable one was back then on Lagos Traffic Radio when I was an Intern. My shift with the other Interns was meant to end by 5 pm and the next one was by 6pm to 9 pm”, Ayrubber said in an interview. Continuing, Ayrubber said, “My other colleagues have gone home, but because I wanted to learn more, I had to stay back with the presenter on duty to see how he did his thing. I did this so many times and it helped me. That was one of my biggest risks among sleepless nights in school”. It was during the years he became refined and certainly came out as a fine jewel in the industry. It was easy for Ayrubber to endure the process before stardom, as that has always been what his heart pants after. The golden voice on radio also has requisite experience on television and explores his voiceover skill on a professional level. “I must confess, news reporting has always been a fun experience, especially when you see yourself as someone people come to for information, trends and what is actually happening in the industry. It’s just really an amazing opportunity to be in the journalism place because I have actually learnt a lot, met a lot of people and connected to a whole lot of people in high and low places. “My major discipline is journalism, especially radio and TV. I have actually worked with KADUTO. This is an international TV station that reports African entertainment and lifestyle news. I have also worked with NIGEZIE TV for a few voices over works, so also was Lagos Africa radio 96.1 FM,” Ayrubber disclosed. 