Apparently tired of needless elimination of innocent citizens by men of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF), the Federal Government has organised a one-day sensitisation and capacity building workshop on emotional intelligence for the rank and file to end extra-judicial killings and improve service delivery. Minister of Police Affairs, Dr. Muhammad Maigari Dingyadi, who opened the event yesterday in Yola, Adamawa State, observed that due to the demanding nature of policing, an officer is exposed to stress and anxiety, which could be transferred to members of the public, thus resulting in infractions. He acknowledged that the near absence of self-management in some policemen had soiled the image of the force. His words: “The good news is that the Ministry of Police Affairs is working closely with the police management to institutionalise service orientation among officers and men of the Nigeria Police Force to deepen citizen’s trust, confidence and increase participation for robust human intelligence “It is hoped that the workshop will assist in self critique to strengthen weaknesses in emotional intelligence for improved police-citizen relationship and internal security management in Nigeria.” The minister hinted that the workshop would be replicated in the remaining five geopolitical zones in the coming days and weeks as part of the ministry’s efforts to reform and reorientate the security agents, with focus on junior officers, adding that they constitute vast majority and interface more with the populace, upon which opinions are formed on the force in general. He submitted that the training was happening at a crucial time in the nation’s history when Nigerians will, once again, exercise their franchise in electing a new set of leaders to steer the ship of state at this year’s general elections. Dingyadi restated government’s commitment to improving the welfare of policemen across the federation through better emoluments, barracks, work environment and modern security enablers to tackle criminality. He added: “These laudable interventions by President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration in policing deserve Nigerians’ ownership and reciprocity through cooperation with officers and men of the Nigeria Police Force. To realise government’s desire for active citizen’s participation in policing endeavour, Nigerians must embrace global best practices of seeing the Police as their own. This will in effect eliminate subjective apathy, which has hitherto hindered efficient police service delivery in Nigeria.” In his goodwill message, the Commissioner of Police in Adamawa, Sikiru Kayode Akande, lauded the ministry for the initiative. Earlier in her welcome address, Director, RERFORMS and SERVICOM, Mrs. Maryam Dalhatu Abdulmalik, explained that the workshop was on attitudinal change for effective service delivery, an integral part of various police reforms, and to identify the missing gaps in police-citizen relations, especially in the area of unfriendliness and mistrust. 