Deputy Senate President and Delta All Progressives Congress governorship candidate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, has challenged the People’s Democratic Party’s candidate and Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon Sheriff Oborevwori, to a public debate on their stewardship to the Urhobo people of Delta Central. Omo-Agege threw the challenge on Monday in Orerokpe, headquarters of Oborevwori’s Okpe LGA,  where the ongoing ward-to-ward campaign of the APC started for the new week, continuing on to Aghalokpe and Adeje. “I hereby use this opportunity to challenge Sheriff Oborevwori, Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly and governorship candidate of the PDP, to a debate on national television to give account of our stewardship so far to the people we represent,” he said. Omo-Agege said the 2023 governorship election in Delta State is basically between APC and PDP and, therefore, expected Oborevwori and himself, both Urhobos, to submit the report cards of their stewardship to their constituents, in the full view of Deltans and Nigerians in general. He said it would be interesting for Oborevwori, as Speaker and number three citizen of Delta State, with all the development projects sited by Governor Ifeanyi Okowa in his own Owa-Alero village, to say what he brought to his own constituents, even with all the loans he approved for the governor. He demanded an explanation on how N20 billion approved and expended on the abandoned PTI/Orerokpe/Eku/Abraka Road by the Okowa administration in which Speaker Oborevwori is a key member, was spent. He also demanded to know why the Orerokpe Stadium was abandoned. “Painfully, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa brought Speaker Oborevwori as candidate of the PDP to cover his tracks but all ethnic groups in Delta State are opposed to the bad choice of Okowa for a successor.” He committed to completing the PTI/Orerokpe/Eku/Abraka Road, construct the bridge that links Agbarho and Orerokpe, and ensure that the abandoned Sapele Technical College is revived when elected governor of Delta State. Earlier, Senator Omo-Agege’s running mate, Rt Hon Friday Osanebi, noted that the appropriation of all funds in the State is  by the Speaker, but lamented that Oborevwori, an Okpe son,  could not use his office to attract anything significant to his constituency. Candidate for the seat of the Okpe LGA in the Delta State House of Assembly, Hero Omwirhven, a lawyer, said the House of Assembly  is not a place you send touts to, and promised to be dedicated if elected member of the house. “I will carefully read through all documents that come my way before signing, I will not sign away the fortunes of my constituents” he said. Chief Ede Dafinone, Senatorial Candidate for Delta Central, posited all candidates of the APC are credible and it was time for Deltans and Nigerians at large, to enjoy good governance. At Aghalokpe, Omo-Agege paid a visit to his maternal family compound where prayers for his victory at the 2023 governorship election were offered by the head of the Onokpayunu family, Pa Akika Adota. 