*** Ebonyi Party’s chairman suspended indefinitely In what might be termed as a gradual crackdown of forces against the Iyorchia Ayu leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the Party’s National Working Committee (NWC) rose from an emergency meeting in Abuja on Friday and placed the chairman of its Ebonyi state chapter, Okorie Tochukwu Okoroafor, on immediate suspension. According to the party, Okoroafor was suspended over allegations of anti-party activities and violation of provisions of Section 58 (1) of the PDP Constitution (as amended in 2017). The Governor Nyesom Wike group also called G-5 or integrity group has been at war with Ayu since the conduct of the party’s presidential primary election in May 2022. Wike lost that election to former Vice president Atiku Abubakar. The party had last week suspended the former Enugu State governor, Chimaroke Nnamani (Enugu State) and Chief Chris Ogbu (Imo State). Others  who had been slammed with suspension are; Ayeni Funso -(Ekiti ) and Ajijola Lateef Oladimeji (Ekiti Central)  Emiola Adenike Jennifer (Ekiti South II) Ajayi Babatunde Samuel-(Ekiti North II), Olayinka James Olalere -(Ekiti Central), Akerele Oluyinka -(Ekiti North I) and Fayose Oluwajomiloju John-(Ekiti Central I) In a statement by its national publicity secretary, Debo Ologunagba, the PDP said the decision to suspend Okoroafor was taken after its NWC had
extensively reviewed his conduct and activities. The party’s NWC said its decision was in compliance with sections 29 (2) (b) and 57(3) of the Constitution of the PDP (as amended in 2017). It also referred Okoroafor to the party’s appropriate disciplinary committee for further action. The Guardian learnt that Okoroafor stayed away from the presidential campaign rally held in Abakaliki, the Ebonyi State capital, on Thursday. A member of the National Executive Committee (NEC) confirmed that staying away from lawful activities or programmes of the party without justifiable reason in addition to other previous misdeeds during this critical political period could be taken as anti-party activities.