• Says APC presidential candidate will run intergenerational govt
• Assures Tinubu of 50 million youth votes The Dayo Israel-led All Progressives Congress (APC) National Youth Wing is set to inaugurate its novel campaign council on Friday at the Umaru Musa Yaradua Hall, Murtala Square, in Kaduna State.
The council was formed to mobilise youth votes for the Presidential Candidate of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and other candidates of the party in the coming elections. Israel, who is the National Youth Leader of the party, made the announcement in a statement yesterday, while reiterating the council’s commitment to secure 50 million youth votes for the party in the coming polls. The youth leader would be joined at the inauguration by other leaders of the party, including the governor of the host state Nasir El-Rufai, leaders and members of the Council, elected leaders of the youth wing and party stakeholders from across the country. The over 200,000-member council comprises 176,846 polling unit youth leaders, 774 LGA youth leaders, 37 state youth leaders, and six zonal youth leaders that make up the party’s youth wing. Israel said they would be joined by other grassroots mobilisers and young members of the party with expertise in research, data and election management, media strategy, and public engagement. He said the inauguration would mark the actuation of the council’s directorates and the unveiling of other campaign materials and innovations, which includes the Jagaban’s Army and a sub-directorate who are tasked with grassroots mobilisation through foot soldiers represented in all the polling units of the country to engage and persuade voters with the support of a canvassers’ record sheet, which will also be unveiled at the event. Israel said other sub-directorates such as Jagaban’s Airforce and Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s (BAT) envoy responsible for media engagements and public affairs respectively, will also be formally launched. He said: “The Wing will also unveil the ‘Young Progressives’ mobile app recently designed and uploaded to the Google Play Store to provide timely updates on its activities – including campaign engagements – and aid inclusive and inter-departments collaboration for the attainment of its declared objectives. This is in addition to the unveiling of pledge cards designed to draw commitments from electorates across the country towards the party’s poll success.
Meanwhile, Israel has said that Tinubu would offer intergenerational collaboration, if he emerged as the President of the country. 