Lead Pastor of Harvesters International Christian Centre, Bolaji Idowu, has emphasised the need for Nigerians to be optimistic and develop positive mindsets to overcome challenges facing the country in the new year. The country is battling inflation, insecurity, unemployment and other challenges, which the citizens hope to overcome if a good leader is elected in the coming polls. At the church’s 2023 Winepress conference in Lagos, the cleric noted that the importance of positive mental attitude and strategic planning, backed up with spiritual direction, cannot be overemphasised in these challenging times.  He also highlighted the month of January as a critical time to set the tone for the rest of the year. “If your mind is small and your beliefs are limiting, there are heights you can never reach,” he added. Speaking of the church, which has reportedly transformed lives for almost two decades across the world, he said: “What started with just a roomful of people has grown to be one of the most desirable places of worship, drawing over one million visitors online and on-site. “Harvesters church is a safe space. A no-judgment zone. This is why even the most secretive people are comfortable enough to share their deepest life struggles during our services.” He further stated that the coming four-day spiritual renewal conference, Winepress 2023, was aimed at disrupting limiting mindsets and providing divine direction to Nigerians for 2023. “No man is an island. You can’t do it alone. You need to seek direction from God to set your goals and collaborate with the right people to achieve these goals. “Winepress is where you can get divine direction and the connections you need for 2023. It is also a place of transformational encounters with the Holy Ghost for persons seeking healing, life partners, career growth, business expansion, visa approvals, financial freedom, childbirth and overall progress in their lives,” he added. He noted that the four-day event, starting from January 25, will feature prophetic ministration from Dunsin Oyekan, Nathaniel Bassey and Omowunmi Idowu at the Landmark event centre.