Commandant General of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, (NSCDC), associate professor Ahmed Audi, has given automatic employment and cheques of an undisclosed sum to families of its seven personnel, who were ambushed by bandits and killed in Birnin Gwari, Kaduna State. Presenting the undisclosed amount cheques to the families at the NSCDC Kaduna Command Headquarters, yesterday, Audi said that the minister of interior Rauf Aregbesola has approved the replacement and automatic employment slots for representatives from each of the families as a way of offering support and succor over the ugly incident. In a statement signed by the Public Relations Officer, PRO, of the Corps, Olusola Odumosu, the CG said the money is a token of support from the government to those left behind by the fallen heroes pending the payment of their accrued benefits. “This is a service that has its personnel in mind. It is my vision to champion the course of promoting personnel’s welfare in the Corps. “The minister has approved one slot each for you to replace your husbands. “I have also directed the Kaduna state Commandant, Idris Yahaya, to liaise with you on getting your details across to us in Abuja,” he informed. Audi, who described the killing as colossal, however, charged other personnel not to be deterred by the ugly incident but to put in their best for a more secure country. “Death is inevitable, it is heart-touching losing the personnel. “Although, this is not the first time we are losing personnel, but it’s so painful that we lost seven personnel at a time. “It is a great loss, that is why i am here personally, to encourage all of you, to continue to do your best and not give up,” he said. The Corps helmsman hinted that he had initiated the process of payment of death benefits and other entitlements to the affected officers through the office of the minister of Interior to ameliorate the pains of those they left behind. He explained that the Corps had been settling burial benefits, entitlements, accident, and group life Insurance policies to personnel as and when due. Also present at the event were other agencies’ service commanders like the Commissioner of Police, Comptroller of Nigeria Immigration Service, Controller of Correctional service, 1Division Garrison Commander, Sector Commander, FRSC among others, who gave emotion-laden goodwill messages. 