President Muhammadu Buhari has approved a renewal of the tenures for Aliyu Bagudu Abubakar, and John Ohireime Asein as Directors General of the Legal Aid Council of Nigeria (LACON) and the Nigerian Copyright Commission (NCC) respectively. Buhari also approved the appointment of Abiodun Ayodeji Aikomo, as Secretary of the Administration of Criminal Justice Monitoring Committee (ACJMC) for an initial period of four (4) years in line with Section 471 (2) of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA) 2015. Modupe Ogundoro, Director of Press and Public Relations in the ministry of justice in a statement on Sunday said the appointment of Aliyu Bagudu Abubakar which was renewed for a second and final tenure of four (4) years and was conveyed vide letter Ref: PRES/97/HAGF/174 and was dated  12th January 2023 in line with Section 3 (1) and (2) of the Legal Aid Act, CAP. L9. Similarly, Mr. John Ohireime Asein’s appointment was renewed for a second and final tenure of four (4) years and conveyed vide letter Ref: PRES/97/HAGF/175 of 12th January 2023 in line with Section 36 (1) and (2) of the Nigerian Copyright Commission Act, CAP C28. The statement added that the appointment of  Abiodun Ayodeji Aikomo, as Secretary of the Administration of Criminal Justice Monitoring Committee (ACJMC) for an initial period of four (4) years was in line with Section 471 (2) of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA) 2015 vide letter Ref: PRES/97/HAGF/173. Meanwhile, In separate congratulatory letters by the Solicitor General of the Federation and Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Justice Mrs. B.E. Jedy-Agba stated that the renewal of appointments of the two Directors-General took effect from 12th January 2023 and that their payments and other conditions of service were provided under the Certain Political Office Holders (Salaries and Allowances, etc) (Amendment) Act 2008. Jedy-Agba further stated that the renewal of the appointment of the duo was predicated on the laudable achievements recorded by the various agencies during their first tenures. She urged them to use their second tenures to consolidate and move the agencies to the next level. While that of Aikomo, she stated it would take effect from 16th January 2023 and that the appointment was in consideration of the President’s confidence in Aikomo’s ability to perform and live up to the challenges of his office. 