Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC), yesterday, said Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) owed the Disco N40 billion as at December 2022, while the total debt profile of the company stood at over N116 billion, adding that it has lost N5 billion to vandalism. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Tinuade Sanda, who made the disclosure, explained that the recent hike in tariff only covered consumers under Band A and B (customers who are under the service of 16-20 hours on the average), adding that the average increase was in the region of N8. Sanda hinted that part of the company’s focus for the year includes engaging Independent Power Producers (IPP) for embedded generation, mini grids, among others for improved power supply She added that the company would be involved in migration of customers in Bands D and E to Bands A to C to improve network health. The chief executive assured Nigerians of improvement in Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) and customer metering through Meter Asset Providers (MAPs) and National Mass Metering Programme phases 1 and 2. She said: “Part of our focus for Year 2023 include business development to make our services more attractive to recapture KCG customers that migrated to alternative power sources and provision of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and work tools for all EKEDC field representatives to cover existing gap.” Sanda promised improved technology deployment, opening of transformer and equipment repair workshop, inauguration of EKEDP training institute, recruitment of talent and fencing of a distribution substations, among others. She equally hinted that the company recorded its best Aggregate Technical and Commercial Collection (ATC&C) losses in EKEDC history of 15.69 per cent and 16.97 per cent in July and August 2022. Sanda added that the company recorded lowest yearly average ATC&C loss of 23 per cent in 2022. She added that part of the initiatives, achievements, milestones and landmarks includes: “Highest billing and collection figures of N14.9 billion and N13.09 billion in EKEDC history, both in December 2022. The company took receipt of 150 transformers to ease burden of overloading.” 