A 300-level student of the Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA), Ondo State, Oluwapelumi Joseph Olona has committed suicide. Olona, reportedly took his life in his off-campus lodge in the Aule area of Akure metropolis. According to sources, the deceased, a student of the Department of Industrial Design hung himself in his room with the aid of buckets. While the cause of his action was yet to be ascertained as of press time, students within the neighbourhood where he lived said it might not be unconnected with depression and financial constraints, which he battled with. The Guardian gathered that his body was found in the early hours of yesterday, when his close friends forced his room’s door open. One of the sources revealed that his friends became apprehensive when he did not pick his phone calls, coupled with the fact that he didn’t open his door after several knocks. “Upon gaining entry, his body was discovered hanging with the buckets used to aid his legs.” Popularly referred to as “Black” among his circle, some of his hall mates described the deceased as a jovial student who never entered into arguments or fought with anyone. However, checks on the Facebook page of the deceased, who was an entrepreneur who makes self-initiated designer wear under the brand name “Tart Angle,” revealed suicidal posts. Also, several of his posts contained messages seeking financial help to enable him to run his business. A post he made on October 8, 2022, read: “Suicide kind of answers all; it’s the only thing that listens and trusts you when you left all to yourself. Good night, and good bye.” Reacting to the incident, the president of the institution’s students’ union, FUTASU, Jesunifemi Asoore, said: “I know we are all saddened by his death, and we’re sending our condolences to his family and friends. Death can be difficult for us to understand, especially when it is sudden. Many of us may be confronted with a variety of emotions, which might include shock, sadness and confusion. We want to assure you that we, the Students Union Government, care about you and the feelings that you may be experiencing.” The State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Funmi Odunlami, who also confirmed the death, said, “His body had been taken to the morgue, and investigation has started to unravel the reasons behind his action, but it was a case of suicide.” 