As the general elections draw closer, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr Femi Gbajabiamila has expressed concern over the rise in insecurity in the polity. In an address at the resumption of the 2023 legislative session, he called for a concerted effort to nip the ugly trend in the bud before the start of the general elections next month. He called on the political elites and their supporters to guard against utterances and actions that could fan the embers of discord among Nigerians in the days ahead. “Honourable colleagues, as we approach the general elections, there has been a marked increase in incidents of insecurity and vicious attacks on political actors in parts of the country. “We must unite to ensure this dangerous trend does not lead to circumstances that threaten the forthcoming elections.  The quality of the political conversations in society, particularly in the lead-up to elections, is a determining factor in the electoral outcomes and the quality of governance that will result therefrom. “When political discourse seeks to unite the people behind an agenda of shared prosperity, social development, and respect for the humanity of persons, governance will also reflect these priorities.” “The security and welfare of the people shall be the primary purpose of government”.  With these words, the constitution obligates all of us who swear to serve in government to do everything to protect the lives and property of all citizens and promote their well-being above all else. “This obligation is central to the governing contract between the government and the citizenry.   As leaders in our various communities and constituencies, we must adopt a politics of accommodation and brotherhood. “And we must ensure that no insecurity threatening our country’s peace can be attributed to our actions or utterances. This is our constitutional obligation and a moral duty from which we must not deviate.” The Speaker expressed gratitude to security personnel stationed in different parts of the country, taking risks and offering the supreme sacrifice to keep the peace. The Speaker assured that ongoing deliberations on bills would be concluded so that they can be presented to President Muhammadu Buhari during the life of this administration. 