The Chinese national Geng Quangrong facing a culpable homicide suit on the murder of Ummukulsum Sani on Wednesday revealed how he dispensed a huge fortune on his late girlfriend and family prior to the incident that led to her death. Kano state government is prosecuting the alleged killer of the 24 years old lady who was said to have been stabbed to death by Quangrong at the deceased Janbulo’s Quarters, Kano after a hot altercation. At the resumption of the matter before Justice Sanusi Ado Ma’aji of Kano High court, on Wednesday, the accused person told the court how the late Ummukulsum allegedly broke his heart twice on the marriage promise she failed. Quangrong told the court that before and after he was jilted twice by the late Ummukulsum, he transferred N60 million to her GTbank account no. 0246116023, for personal use, besides N18 million he gave her to run a business and another N10 million he graciously offered to buy a Car upon her demand. Quangrong spoke when his lawyer Barrister Mohammad Danazimi open a defense and revealed how his late girlfriend compelled him to convert to Islam after he made a down fee of N2 million to the Iman. He added that the sooner he converted he also perfected all monetary demands by the family on the proposed traditional wedding, including 214 pieces of textile materials and several cartoons of biscuits and sweets. Those items, he said were exclusive of another N700,000 new naira notes the late Ummukulsum directed him to cash as a gift for her parents when both visited Sokoto state to seek permission and approval of the marriage. According to Quangrong, ” Ummukulsum got my phone contact from a friend and told me she loved me and she would be willing to marry me by God’s grace. At that time in June 2020, I was residing in Asaba in Delta state. But she insisted I should relocate to Kano which I accepted and relocated in July. “As an International trader, I started a business partnership with BBY Textiles in Kwari market, Kano. From that moment on there is nothing she requested of me that I hesitated including financial and material because she has promised to marry me. “In February 2022, she suddenly broke her promise and got married to another man and relocated to Abuja. I felt so disappointed and heartbroken but I made up my mind to move on because I know life must continue. Yet she never stops calling and sending text messages. But I later asked her to stop because I felt it is morally wrong since we are no longer in a relationship. “But around march, 2022, she called one faithful day only to seek for forgiveness over her decision to abandon me. She told me she was no longer interested in the Abuja marriage and already divorced the man and now she wanted us to renew our relationship. I accepted her apologies on the grand that she will never cheat on me or break her marriage promise again”. Quangrong narrated further: “From that period onward, she would ask me to take her out for dinner, night parties and other social events. We are well known at Bristol palace hotel, Chinese restaurant and Grand Central hotel because we do visit regularly for dinner. “At some point, she requested for N18 million to start doing business which I sent. Sooner she asked for N4 million to buy a house that she could lend out for rent. I gladly gave her the money. At another time, she demanded I buy her a car at the cost of N10 million and graciously gave her the amount. ” She also requested for N6 million to buy materials for her graduation which I never hesitate to give. At that time, she was undergoing her NYSC at Sokoto state. For that event, she invited more than 20 members of her family and friends. “Any time there are holidays like the Salah festival, wedding ceremony and other social occasions, she will ask me to buy her clothes, gifts and other items. I have never refused her request. Incidentally, I realized all these monies she has been collecting from me are being used to buy landed property in Abuja and even started developing the land since 2021”. The accused person, however, explained that the crisis started on 13th September 2022 when he refused to give her the money she requested to travel to Abuja. He revealed it was at that moment his late girlfriend stopped picking up his calls, and sooner he received a text message from late Ummukulsum notified that she was no longer interested in the relationship. Before Barrister Danazimi opened his defense, he cross-examination the mother of the victim, and two other witnesses including the Chief Medical Officer of Murtala Muhammad Specialists Hospital, Dr Hawa Ibrahim who told the court she was not on duty on 16th September 2022 when unfortunate incident occurred. The defense counsel had challenged the credibility of the medical report brought before the court 90 days after the incident. Although the defense counsel did not query the authenticity of the medical report, he told journalists after the matter that it was not of the essence especially since the CMO has revealed she was not on duty when the case was brought to the hospital. Justice Ma’aji has adjourned the matter to 12th January 2023 for the continuation of the hearing on the defense.