Download logo The government is set to construct a modern 2,000 bed Multi-Specialty Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Kiplombe area as part of ongoing reforms aimed at enhancing access to quality and affordable healthcare in the country.  Speaking in Eldoret during a tour of the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital, Health Cabinet Secretary Susan Nakhumicha said the designs of the facility are ready with the government seeking for a proper financing mechanism to kick off the project following the pronouncement made by president William Ruto. While lauding the hospital management for exemplary performance that has seen the facility named the best semi-autonomous government agency at the health ministry for the last 6 years in Performance Management System, the health CS said the government remains committed to support the hospital realize its mission. “The Ministry of Health will address the budgetary needs raised by MTRH Management to ensure MTRH meets all her Staffing, Training, Equipment and other needs. This will place MTRH at a sound pedestal in her contribution to achievement of Universal Health Coverage(UHC) for the Kenyan people.” Said the health CS. She said the Ministry of Health will assist with equipping and staffing of two hospitals whose construction is expected to be completed in the next one and a half years. “Two partners, namely Shoe4Africa Foundation, New York, USA and Sidekick Foundation, Indiana, USA have been granted VAT exemption status by Government of Kenya to construct the multi-million 162-bed Shoe4Africa Julie Anne Perry Children’s Hospital and 64-bed Harry J. Dyer Children Burns Hospital in the new year.” Observed Nakhumicha. She said the two facilities will help decongest MTRH even as she urged Counties to prioritize quality healthcare delivery so that not every patient has to come all the way to MTRH.
And to address some of the concerns raised by the Kenya medical practitioners, pharmacists and dentists Union, the health CS said the government will be posting 800 medical interns in the second week of this month. She said the government through the ministry of health has initiated key governance reforms targeting among others NHIF and KEMSA as it seeks to bring down the cost of healthcare. The government has also amalgamated some schemes including the Linda mama programme as well as the planned scale up of the health insurance subsidy programme for the poor and most vulnerable to 5 million indigent households over the next three years. Speaking during the meeting, MTRH CEO Dr. Wilson Aruasa said the hospital remains integral in ongoing health reforms serving as a nucleus for 22 counties as well as attending to patients from neighbouring countries. Citing the MTRH Nawiri recovery and skills project that provides mental health patients with opportunities of economic development skills, Aruasa said the facility has adopted innovative concepts to help deal with existing challenges. Meanwhile, the health CS has pledged to partner with the County government of Uasin Gishu to help deliver on its health agenda. Speaking on Tuesday morning when she paid a courtesy call on Uasin Gishu Governor H.E Jonathan Bii, the health CS said the national government remains ready to support county governments improve access to affordable and quality healthcare. The CS and her host discussed a wide range of health issues including areas of collaboration between the national government and the county administration, among them support for health facilities under the county government, in an effort to enhance health services for area residents as well as help ease the burden on Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital. While lauding the CS for her commitment, Governor Bii said his administration remains ready to work with the national government to help deliver on its pre-election pledges. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Ministry of Health, Kenya.