The Presidential Candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has urged the people of Jigawa State to vote in responsive and responsible leadership in the upcoming general election, and not allow the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) back to power. Tinubu said this when he addressed party supporters who thronged the APC presidential campaign rally held at Mallam Aminu Kano Triangle, Dutse. He said having voted out the “jackals and hyenas” in the PDP administration in 2015, it would be disastrous to give them another opportunity to be back in power again. “You did the courageous job of chasing away the locusts eight years ago, do not trust their deceptive promises. Do not let them back into power. Like locusts, they will devour everything on their path! “Instead, vote for the people that have a track record of delivering prosperity to the people. We did it in Lagos and Borno states, and with your help we will do it again for Nigeria. Vote for the people with the vision, the capacity, the competence and the integrity to do what is right. “Vote for responsive and responsible leadership. Vote for us. Vote for the APC on February 25 and March 11,” he said. He said his administration would build on the achievements of President Muhammadu Buhari and make the country to flourish again. Speaking on his administration’s plans, Tinubu promised to revamp the agricultural sector, while also giving great attention to developing infrastructure across the country. “The vast arable land in Jigawa will be activated to make this state a place to reckon with in agro-business and agro-allied industries. “We will build upon the gains already recorded in agriculture in this state”. We will invest in the expansion of irrigation and water management systems to increase productivity and reduce the impact of extreme weather, drought and flood cycles on crop yields. Our initiatives will ensure that Jigawa farmers can cultivate their lands all year round,” he added. He also said, “If you elect me, I will consolidate the ongoing infrastructural revolution by networking our entire country with good roads that would spur development. We will use the road network to connect our major agricultural and industrial hubs.” Jigawa State Governor Badaru Abubakar thanked the people of the state for turning out in their large numbers to receive Tinubu and APC leaders. He described Tinubu as his dear father who would soon be the “father of the nation.” 