Mobility platform, BuuPass has expressed readiness to digitise the space with its technology across Africa. BuuPass, which has its roots in Kenya, offers an online bus booking system, which enables travelers to reserve seats and make payments in a convenient and timely way.  The venture-backed startup, through its all-in-one web and Application Programming Interface (API) solutions, caters to both transport operators and travelers across Africa.
    
Founded in 2016, BuuPass provides solutions to both operators and end users in the mobility ecosystem. Its web platform enables long-distance transport operators to digitise and manage their services, inventory and sales, minimise cash leakages, and run seamless online bookings through its Bus Management System (BMS).
    
With focus on bridging the gap between the operators and the over 500 million mobile phone users in Sub-Saharan Africa, founders Wyclife Omondi and Sonia Kabra, said: “BuuPass solves key customer pain points on B2B and B2C side while building scalable infrastructure and digitising the transport industry from the grassroots. Yet, digitising mobility across Africa wouldn’t be a walk in the park, given the continent’s regional complexities.”
    
According to the International Transport Forum (2018) Blockchain and Beyond, held in Paris, three major layers are required to bolster the digitisation of mobility – operators, IT providers and mobility service providers.  With over 1,000,000 bus users, more than 920 buses in operation and over 800 locations covered in Kenya and Uganda, BuuPass’ claimed that its all-in-one platform is demonstrating its capacity to alleviate the hurdles of transport operators and at the same time facilitate the convenience of commuters. 
   
Currently, the platform processes over 10,000 bookings daily and looks to quadruple this number in Q1, 2023.
   
Kabara said: “While the race to digitise mobility in Africa is far from over, BuuPass is one of the few solution providers attempting to ensure everyone in the value chain is catered to, one pan-African country at a time. We are different because we have something for everyone in the value chain – operators, commuters, and regulators. We are ensuring that no one is left behind.” 