•Destroys 39 illegal refineries in N/Delta Nigeria’s military High Command has said troops in frontlines have neutralized 64 in Nort East and North West, rescueing 122 civilian captives uninterrupted in the last two weeks. The Director Defence Media Operations (DMO), Major General Musa Danmadami who made the disclosure today, noted that the military in conjunction with other security agencies have continued to record unprecedented successes in all its operations across the country. The Director DMO noted that troops of Operation HADIN KAI (OPHK), have obliterated 42 terrorists, arrested over 14 terrorists and their logistics suppliers, rescued SIX civilian captives within two weeks. According to him, over 267 terrorists surrendered as cache of arms and ammunition were recovered by troops within the period under review. “Troops equally neutralized 42 terrorists, arrested five terrorists, nine terrorists logistics suppliers, two suspected vandals, five bandits as well as five armed herders. Troops also rescued six abducted civilians while a total of 267 terrorists and their family members, comprising 22 adult male, 128 adult females and 117 children surrendered to troops at different locations of the North East theater of operation,” he stated. He added that troops through air interdiction operations at terrorists’ hideouts, enclaves and camps, particularly in Dogon Chuku in the fringes of Northern Tumbums , Arina Kasa in Southern Tumbums of the Lake Chad Basin and Chidike in Mandara Mountains as well as Gezuwa area all in Borneo State, neutralised scores of terrorists,destroyed their structures and logistics. In another development, General Danmadami stated that, in the North Central Zone, troops of Operation SAFE HAVEN have killed 12 terrorists, apprehended 40 and rescued 74 in different operations conducted in parts of Plateau, Niger, Kogi, and Benue States within the period. “Equally, on January 22, 2023, based on credible intelligence, troops raided criminals hideout at Njuu and Waku village in Logo and Guma Local Government Areas of Benue State and made contact with terrorists. Following a fierce fight, three terrorists were neutralised.
“Troops recovered eight dane guns, two AK47 rifles, one pistol, three rounds of 9mm ammunition, 112 rounds of 7.62mm special, 20 rounds of 5.56mm ammunition, one galil rifle, one magazine, three ATM cards and the sum of N69,000.00. Troops also arrested five terrorists as well as rescued eight civilians.
“Consequently, within the weeks in review, troops neutralized seven terrorists, arrested two suspected gunrunners and 19 terrorists as well as rescued 36 kidnapped victims. Troops also recovered eight AK47 rifles, two RPG tube, four RPG seven bombs, four RPG, seven chargers and two pistol, eight dane guns, three rounds of 9mm ammunition, 112 rounds of 7.62mm special and 20 rounds of 5.56mm ammunition.” In the North West zone, the Director said troops of Operation HADARIN DAJI during its onslaughts against terrorists within the period, cumulatively, troops neutralized 22 terrorists, arrested 4 and rescued 26 civilians. Troops equally recovered 18 AK47 rifles, one sub-machine gun, 126 rounds of 7.62mm special, six magazines, 13 motorcycles, two boafeng radios, 10 mobiles, and two laptops.” According to General Danmadami, the land , air and maritime components of Operation DELTA SAFE conducted operational activities at the creeks, waterways,high sea and towns in some parts of the Niger Delta area and denied the criminals from destroying the economic products worth the sum of One Hundred and Twenty Five Million, Three Hundred Ninety Nine Thousand Four Hundred and Sixty Naira. He explained that, within the period, troops discovered and destroyed several illegal refineries, petroleum products,other equipment and apprehended some suspected economic saboteurs in the South South zone.
“Cumulatively, within the weeks in focus troops discovered and destroyed 39 illegal refining sites, 48 cooking ovens, 103 storage tanks, 27 dugout pits and 33 wooden boats. Troops also recovered one tug boat, one barge, three pumping machines, three speed boats and 13 vehicles. “Additionally, troops recovered 274,000 litres of crude oil, 71,000 litres of Automotive Gas Oil, 15 Ak47 rifles, while 40 suspected economic saboteurs were arrested.” According to him, all recovered items, apprehended criminals, rescued civilians were handed over to the appropriate authority for further action while captured terrorists and surrendered Boko Haram Terrorists/Islamic State of West Africa Province and members of their families are being profiled for further action.