The Controller General, Nigeria Correctional Service (NCoS), Mr Haliru Nababa, has commended the Chairman of Abdul Samad Rabiu Africa Initiative (ASR Africa), Alhaji Abdul Samad Rabiu, for his philanthropy and support for humanity. Nababa gave the commendation at the service national headquarters in Abuja on Friday, when he received a letter of grant of N500 million for the development of the service from the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of ASR Africa, Mr Ubon Udoh. This is contained in a statement by the National Public Relations Officer (NPRO), Mr Umar Abubakar on Friday in Abuja. The CGC applauded the initiative and promised to make judicious use of the grant as intervention to improve on the security of Custodial Centres by adding technological surveillance that would enhance the remote monitoring frameworks. He also said that the grant would provide the service with equipment in ensuring that the security solutions covered a wider range of Custodial Centres and would reduce the chances of further attacks. Nababa said that more personnel would also enjoy quality training on how to effectively utilise the IT solutions in driving the service forward as it would improve the morale of Staff. Nababa stressed that the image management of the service was not left out as he promised to bring to limelight the efforts of the CGC through hi-tech equipment. The CGC also promised to expand the Service by employing more technology to make the service at par with international Correctional Centres in developed countries.
While presenting the cheque to Nababa, Udo said the organisation was set up as a vehicle to drive the Chairman’s mission for Nigeria and Africa. This, he said, was to create a platform where Nigerians and Africans could take responsibility to solve their own developmental problems by looking inwards.
“This initiative has three thematic areas which include Health, Education and Social development. “NCoS through her rehabilitation and reformation programmes, falls under the third thematic area hence the grant,” he said. 