Even before the outburst by presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, in Abeokuta on Wednesday, there had been unease among some members of the ruling party, whether the recent Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) monetary policies, lingering fuel crisis, increase in electricity tariff, among other policies, were not targeted at jeopardising chances of the party and their candidate in the February 25 election.  In all of his travails, Tinubu weathered the storm, waiting for his time to demand payback. Before the 2019 re-election, President Buhari managed to close ranks with Tinubu and not long after he got re-elected, another season of cold war ensued, such that many loyalists of the former governor of Lagos were side lined and or relieved of their appointments. The development created serious doubts in the minds of Tinubu’s loyalists, whether the President truly counted him (Tinubu) as an ally. 
 
The coldness heightened when immediate past minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, claimed he wasn’t aware of any pact President Buhari had to concede power to Tinubu after his (Buhari) tenure in office.
 
In a swift reaction to Amaechi, the incumbent minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, said there was mutual and gentlemanly agreement that power would shift to the South, and specifically, to Southwest, after Buhari’s tenure in office. It was not only Amaechi who let out such plot. Even the Kaduna Governor, Mallam Nasir el Rufai, had stoked similar plots, pronouncing that there was no pact to cede power to the South in the APC.
   
Again, loyalists of the national leader interpreted such plots as part of schemes to frustrate Tinubu’s lifetime ambition to be president and to stop Southwest from producing his successor.
   
Shortly after the Fashola, Amaechi altercations, the travails of erstwhile National Chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole, who is regarded as a Tinubu loyalist, began. He was later removed and the entire National Working Committee (NWC) sacked and replaced by the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) headed by Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni. The removal of Oshiomhole and appointment of Buni was approved by the party’s National Executive Council (NEC) headed by President Buhari. The rest is history as to how the Buni-led CECPC did everything to undermine the South and Tinubu.
   
The tenure of the CECPC, which was originally meant to be six months, was extended to almost two years. The development also created doubts regarding Mr. President’s commitment to the transition programme.  
 
Again when APC began the sale of Nomination and Expression of Interest Forms for the presidential primary, Buhari did not pay much attention to those who picked forms and which geo-political zones they came from. As leader of the party, his body language did not anticipate power to shift to the South. Interestingly, Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State from the north central paraded himself as the anointed candidate of Mr. President. The governor of Jigawa, Badru picked his own form. El Rufai said he was prompted to pick his own form.  Later in the campaign trail, the combativeness of the candidate’s campaign team and blunt refusal to be held accountable by the Media have given inkling of how imperial the Tinubu Presidency could be if he wins the election. It appears the Presidency is not too comfortable with this, in addition to emerging health and integrity challenges.  According to him, “a legacy has been built and I doubt if the President will want another party to come and destroy his works of eight years. Not the PDP, whose house is in a disarray.”
 
Oladejo added that President Buhari has said he is totally supporting Tinubu just as we saw how the Vice President visited Tinubu recently. “APC will win the 2023 election,” he said.
 
Also expressing confidence in the support of northern governors and President Buhari for Tinubu, immediate past deputy national chairman of APC, Azeez Bolaji Repete, said: Tinubu is enjoying maximum support from President Buhari. Northerners are very sophisticated people with strong sense of history and I must give kudos to all the northern governors that stood firm with Asiwaju Tinubu to pick our party’s presidential ticket and based on that, I have no doubt in my mind that northerners are very genuine and trustworthy and they are ready to elect Tinubu come 2023.”
 
The CBN also distanced its policies of naira redesign and withdrawal limits from politics, contrary to insinuations. The Deputy Governor of the apex Bank, Mrs Aisha Ahmad, said the policy was the outcome of critical thinking, research and other monetary considerations.