ActionAid Nigeria has partnered with a fintech organization – Chipper Cash, a cross-border payment company, to provide financial and non-financial support to households affected by floods in  Bayelsa State. About 70 households across Gbarain and Ekpetiama clans in Yenagoa Local government area were provided with a variety of food items and cash prizes.’’ The Country Director, of ActionAid, Ene Obi, while speaking on the donations, noted that the partnership with Chipper Cash is quite timely because we are in Yuletide Season when people’s hearts should be merry. She said: “It is indeed a pleasure that Chipper Cash decided to work with us to put smiles on the faces of families this Christmas.” Obi further noted that the intervention is the second ActionAid Nigeria has undertaken in Bayelsa within two months saying, ‘In November, we were also in Bayelsa to provide one hundred and forty (140) households across the 3 LGAs with food, non-food items, and dignity kits including cash payments of Sixty Thousand Naira per household. While commending Chipper Cash for their donation and support to vulnerable families this period, they  called on other Corporate Organizations to look beyond their immediate physical environment for the implementation of their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) plans to other locations like Bayelsa, Kogi and Jigawa where vulnerable families need their support to rebuild their lives post-flood.’ The Marketing Manager, of Chipper Cash, Mr Goldie Iyamu, in his remarks, said: “At Chipper Cash, we believe that every business has a responsibility to help tackle crisis adding that the partnership with ActionAid, is in line with their commitment to providing immediate relief for the flood victims. “We are proud to be able to offer financial and non-financial support as part of our commitment to make an impact in our local communities to bring about a change that will help communities bounce back stronger”, he stated. Speaking on the closure of the Internally Displaced Persons Camps in Bayelsa State, Obi said that  ActionAid Nigeria has been following with keen interest the plight of those affected by the flood, as they try to rebuild their lives post-flood. She added that although the closure of the IDP camps in Bayelsa State and across other States was imminent but they are disturbed by the economic realities of the affected households, particularly women, children, and youths, as rebuilding their lives when all the sources of their livelihood have been destroyed and with no or limited financial support from Government, NGOs and Corporate organizations will be difficult to achieve.