 Commissioner DJ Wysei Everything we see happen for a reason. Nothing appeared out of the blue, not even failure, which is a result of doing nothing. The common denominator for success is hard work, consistency on the highest tier and years of grinding. That is the story of Nigeria’s multi-talented and youngest female Disk Jockey, Iwuagwu Ebere Pat, fondly referred to as Commissioner DJ Wysei. The entertainment personality who hails from Imo State, South-east Nigeria, had passion for music since she was in the secondary school and like they say, the rest is history. After her secondary education, Commissioner DJ Wysei bagged a degree in Information Communication Technology from the National Open University (NOUN), and she is currently on the verge of completing her masters in Spain. She started her career in 2014 and since then, she has not looked back. She has grown to become an inspiration to her colleagues in the Nigerian entertainment industry and those coming from behind. “The passion for music developed during my secondary school years and through my University days as a student. I am also a certified Information Technologist. Though I had no Idea I would decide on disk jockeying”, she recalled in an interview. “I have had lots of experiences in my career when I started as a DJ and I can boldly say publicly that coming out strong and noticed in the industry is not just about being a lady with all the attractive features to offer, but such that could attract the needed attention and know what the listeners want”. After eight years of surmounting obstacles and staying true to her calling, Commissioner DJ Wysei, who was born on November 2, has become an enigma, an icon in the industry, serving as a source of strength and courage to her gender who needed some one to look up to. Family wields a major influence in our lives, and there are usually attempts to either persuade and dissuade us when making making among other things, choices, including in careers. Commissioner DJ Wysei revealed how she was able to convince her family on the career path she had chosen to follow. “It all began with a simple question that I answered without knowing what the future holds. ‘DJing?’ my sister asked, ‘Is that what you want to do?’ I told her with full confidence: ‘I’ve decided to take this thing full time; I love it and I am ready for it. “She could see I was clearly love-drunk with music and the industry. It was then she took me and bought me my very first DJ player, a memory that has created a beautiful after-taste of passion, drive and brilliance. I can never forget that moment in my life,” Iwuagwu Pat stated. History is only kind to those who gave everything to what they believe in. Commissioner DJ Wysei has gone on to build one the world’s most overawe profiles. She gained global exposure after she featured on the BBC and was also named as one of the five highly effective female DJ’s on CNN’s Inside Africa. The international attention turned towards her career sealed the status as the best in the business in the country. Commissioner DJ Wysei holds the recognition as the most entertaining DJ in the country and only professional female DJ in the nation. In 2020, she was featured on Malimbe Africa in-flight magazine for “Arik Air, Aero, Dana air and Bristow”. Iwuagwu Patricia was also selected by “Maggi Nigeria” to represent Nigerian DJs on “international women’s day”, and she featured on BBC Igbo as one of the most talented, unique and drummer DJ in the continent. During the lock-down caused by the COVID-19 pandemic in the same year, she featured as one of the female DJ’s who played on the Soundcity Africa Virtual Concert tagged “AMAZONINTHEMIX”. To crown the year, she was awarded the “Best Female DJ”. A year later, Commissioner DJ Wysei trended on Twitter as one of the best DJ to perform on the popular reality TV show, Big Brother Naija. She holds a regular online entertainment show with her fanbase estimated to be up to 2million on both Facebook and Instagram, with an engagement capacity of over
8million people every week. 