Former President Olusegun Obasanjo, former Prime Minister of Britain, Tony Blair and his wife, Cherie; and business mogul, Aliko Dangote have commiserated with the President of African Development Bank (AfDB), Akinwumi Adesina, over the death of his mother, Mrs. Eunice Olaperi Folasade Adesina. Mrs. Adesina died on December 22, 2022 and would be buried on Saturday, February 11, 2023, after a funeral service at the Cathedral Church of St. Matthew, Ojowo, ijebu-Igbo, Ogun State. In separate condolence messages to the AfDB President, they all extolled the virtues of the deceased, praying God to grant her soul peaceful rest and comfort those she left behind. Obasanjo wrote: “It is with sadness that I received the passing on to glory of Mama, Chief (Mrs.) Eunice Olaperi Folasade Adesina, at the age of 92. On behalf of myself, and my family, please accept our profound condolences and prayers as you go through the permanence of her absence. “May God give you and other members of your family the strength and fortitude to bear her passage and may her gentle soul rest in perfect peace with the Lord.” Blair and his wife, wrote: “My deepest condolences on the passing of Mama Eunice. Cherie and I want to convey our heartfelt sympathy on your loss and also to express our profound admiration for your mother, for her life, for her achievements and for her extraordinary grace and character. “So, I know dear Akin, that to you and your family, she was a much-loved Mama. But to many others, she would have been an icon of good faith and good living. May she rest in the peace she so richly deserves.” Dangote, who addressed Adesina as ‘My Dearest brother’ in his letter, also wrote: “I received with sadness the news of the passing of your beloved mother, our mother, grandmother and great grandmother, Madam Eunice O. Adesina. On behalf of the Board, Management and Staff of Dangote Industries Limited, I extend my deepest sympathies to you and the entire Adesina family of Ibadan in Oyo State, Nigeria…” “To all those who ever had the privilege of knowing her, Mama Eunice Adesina symbolised the virtues of integrity, simplicity and principled devotion to Almighty God throughout her 92 years of life…” Her deep wisdom, love for humanity and large heart drew numerous admirers to her and made her a source of blessing to her community…” “Alongside your father, Pa Roland F. Adesina of blessed memory, Mama cared for you, patiently instilled the high values of hard work and dedication in you, and wholeheartedly supported your eventual study of Agricultural Economics at the prestigious Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State. “How proud Mama Eunice must have been when you emerged as the first student to pass with distinction in your course of study! How delighted she must have been over the years when the child she nurtured grew up to become a globally-acclaimed expert in agricultural economics, who later assumed the elevated position of the eighth and current President of the African Development Bank and the first Nigerian to occupy the office!
“We share your pain, and our thoughts are with you at this difficult time. It is truly hard to lose someone who has been an integral part of your journey. Good mothers hold a special place in our hearts. The words of the great American President, Abraham Lincoln that “All that I am or ever hope to be, I owe to my angel mother” resonate in your own instance. Her sage advice, wisdom and guidance will be sorely missed.
“May Almighty God grant her eternal rest and give you and the entire family the fortitude to bear the loss. Once again, please accept my condolences.”