Former Governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha, has denied reports making the rounds that he has decamped to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). This was contained in a statement, yesterday, signed by his media aide, Sam Onwuemeodo, and made available to The Guardian. The Senator, who represents Imo West Senatorial District, urged people to disregard the purported story. The statement reads: “Our attention had been drawn to a story claiming that Okorocha has joined the PDP. “Those behind the fake news also attached a photograph of Okorocha and a chieftain of the PDP, Emeka lhedioha, and others. “They deliberately failed to mention the venue and the event where the photograph was taken. They could not also quote a portion of Okorocha’s speech, since he is not a dumb man, and must have made a speech at the event. “We make bold to say that Okorocha has not joined the PDP. He is still a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC). A burial ceremony could not have become political declaration rally.” Explaining how the report came about, the statement added: “On Friday, December 30, 2022, Kingsley Uju, representing Ohaji-Egbema/Oguta/Oru West Federal Constituency, buried the mother,  Lolo Caroline Uju,  at her Home town,  Egbema. “Uju was Okorocha’s appointee. He served Okorocha and his government in various capacities, including being the Deputy Chief of Staff, and was his anchorman in the oil producing areas of the state. “Okorocha was also instrumental to his going to the House of Representatives on the platform of APC.” The statement maintained that Uju joined PDP when he discovered that his second term ticket could not be guaranteed in APC, noting that he succeeded in getting the PDP ticket. It further noted that Okorocha would not have, in the circumstance, asked him to drop his second term bid. It said: “Okorocha would not have boycotted the burial, because of Uju’s current political party. That would have been most uncharitable and unimaginable, especially when lgbo do not play politics with death and burial, even when the reverse seems to be the case these days.” 