The Senatorial, House of Representatives and House of Assembly candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have assured residents of Lekki Phase One in Lagos of good representation. Lagos Central Senatorial candidate Wasiu Sanni-Eshilokun led the duo of Babajide Obanikoro, House of Reps candidate and Noheem Adams, Lagos Assembly candidate to the interactive session with the residents. The residents appealed to them to help beef up security in the axis and address infrastructural deficit bedevilling the area if elected. Chairman of APC Lekki Phase 1, Hajia Shareefah Abiola Andu said the meeting gave the residents an opportunity to demand how they want to be governed. “We don’t want to sit on the fence anymore. We want to be involved and being involved means asking questions, making demands by extracting promises from them,” she said. She added that the candidates were up to standard with the way they responded to questions asked by residents. “From all the questions that were asked, they actually surpassed our expectations. They did very well. So we know we can actually give them our votes. If they don’t measure up to the standard that we want, we won’t vote for them. But they have done very well, so they can be assured of our votes.” APC Women Leader in the estate, Ajibike Onigbanjo, stated the crucial needs of the community are security and good roads. If those things are assured, she said, Lekki would be safe and secured. “Security and sanctity of our community is our priority. Lekki Phase 1 is gradually turning into a no man’s land. Anybody who comes in and goes out with no surveillance is quite unsafe. We also want serenity; we don’t have any recreation centre in the whole of Lekki Phase 1 except for this pavilion where we hold meetings. And they are planning to take it away from us. We must make sure that we retain it or they give us somewhere else,” she said. Onigbanjo’s assistant, Toun Bombata urged the candidates to fulfill their electoral promises, as this will go a long way in restoring people’s trust in APC. “We want them to go there and fulfill their promise, so that’s when they come next time to canvass for the vote, people will accept them.” APC, House of Representatives Candidate for Eti-Osa Constituency, Babajide Obanikoro, urged residents to elect all APC candidates to give room for continuity. “APC has delivered most of their promises and will deliver the remaining ones. If reelected we are going to continue from where we stopped. In the next dispensation, we are going to complete all our projects and we are going to kick-start new ideas. “For example, the Fintech, there is no law coordinating the industry, right now I have been encouraging all Fintech companies to come to me so that we can form a team that will enable them to perform to their maximum capacity.” He said the issue of special status for Lagos is still on the burner. “We embarked on it in the ninth assembly but there is a lot of work to be done. There are 360 members pulling the National Assembly left, right and centre; it is not an easy task. We need a lot of effort, we have started it but it has not gotten anywhere because it encompasses a lot of things,” he said. He urged Nigerians to vote for Asiwaju because he is a visionary, adding, “Looking at Lagos state today, these are his ideas. He is the brain behind the red line, the blue line. These are his ideas in his eight years as the governor of Lagos state.” House of Assembly candidate, Noheem Adams said the interactive session is necessary to assure residents that we are going there to fully represent the interest of the constituency, not our individual interest. “I have plans to introduce policies and laws that will be community-friendly and facilitate more infrastructure development in the area. Early this year, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu mentioned that the Fourth Mainland bridge would commence. “Our community Eti-Osa community will benefit a lot from the bridge because it will ease transportation. Likewise, we are also working on the regional road to be completed and we are hoping that the BRT Park at Ajah will be completed for commissioning soon.” “So many roads project are ongoing, the Alpha beach road, we hope that this year it will be completed. The Orchid road by the toll gate, Salu Obodo road and Girigiri Tapa Rrad will also commence,” he said. 