Experienced Marketing Communications and Public Relations expert, Mimidoo Ucheagwu and seasoned Management Support and People Professional, Abiola Arogundade have been appointed as Business Development Director and Executive Assistant/HR Lead respectively at leading PR firm and Nigerian affiliate of the Porter Novelli global brand, C&F Porter Novelli. They are expected to help drive the next growth phase of the brand, building on a great legacy and reputation. Until their appointments, Ucheagwu was the Corporate Communications and Sustainability lead with Grand Cereals Limited, while Arogundade was Management Support Exec with SecureID Limited. Both Ucheagwu and Arogundade have combined work experiences spanning over 30 years, and are expected to bring their wealth of experience to bear on the C&F brand, exploring new business opportunities, expanding current business portfolios and creating innovative business processes. Speaking on the appointments, Chief Executive Office of C&F Porter Novelli, Mr. Tony Ajero said: “We are indeed delighted to welcome Mimidoo and Abiola to the C&F family. C&F is on a strategic next growth phase and we believe that these appointments will help us reinforce and achieve this new trajectory, while creating and leading innovative businesses and transformative programmes. “C&F Porter Novelli is a premier Reputation Capital consultancy and we are known for our leadership legacy upon which we hope to build on even more in this new phase. We look forward to exciting times ahead as we continue to build and grow the C&F brand on the continent and globally,” Ajero added. “I am indeed excited to be part of this journey. C&F is a reputable brand and I am quite honoured to be part of this new strategic thrust that will help consolidate its legacy and take it to new heights,” Ucheagwu said. Arogundade added “I look forward to working with C&F, especially because it has strong history and I am excited to be building on top such legacy, heading towards an even greater future.” 