Lamentation Of Pupa Orits Wiliki
Early in the week, reggae icon, Pupa Orits Wiliki was forced to take to his Facebook Timeline to lament the refusal of his former record label in releasing to him the Master Tape of his 80s hit song, ‘Tribulation’. T4T expectedly saw it; so, it is reproduced here, verbatim: “And the beat goes on and on. Tribulation written 1985 but released in 1989 on Polygram Records which became Premier Music. Premier so love this album that they wouldn’t let me have back my Master Tape after 34 years of exploitation and getting almost nothing contrary to the agreement. Right now, I am doing what I gat to do to get my freedom. Crazy isn’t it? Remember I told you that, this year will be dedicated to my journey so far telling the story where we are coming from. Share this I beg of you family.” Well, T4T no dey fit close im mouth and so reminded him that the refusal of the music label company could be because of a ‘clause’ in the contract he signed. Bros Wiliki disagreed. He reiterated his resolve to fight the matter to the end. This is wishing Pupa Orits Wiliki good luck!
Police And ‘Pranksters’… Before It’s Too Late
T4T will not stop talking about the dangerous trend pranking has taken in Nigeria. These pranksters have conferred on themselves the powers to forcefully change the society by law and their target seems to be the ladies. They are now fashion and moral policemen rolled into one. Recently, T4T was forced to call on the police authorities to checkmate the activities of a prankster, @Iamtrinityguy. Little did he know that another one would get inspiration from his total violation of the rights of women, which he calls pranks. Yanbaba’s video posted online recently should earn him some time in a Correctional facility, no doubt. This was what happened. The prankster was in a car when he sighted a lady dressed, according to him, indecently. He quickly told whoever was driving to pull over. He came down and confronted the lady on why she dressed that way. Expectedly, the lady asked him who he was. And then, he opened the water bottle in his hand and started drenching her with the water asking her to go back home to change her clothes! T4T was shocked! The lady could not fight him; he was bigger in size so all she could do was throw her shoes at him and even scooped some sand and tried to fight with it. The moralist ran into the car, chuckling out of satisfaction, as the car zoomed off! Recently, the police authorities issued a statement warning all these pranksters to tone down their pranks. Guess they went to sleep thereafter because T4T wonders why @iamtrinityguy and Yanbaba are not answering questions at a police station now and possibly facing arraignment in a law court for the violation of the rights of others and physical assault. What Is Nkiru Sylvanus Hiding?
Nollywood actress, Nkiru Sylvanus is about to get married. We are happy for her; it has been a very long wait. But T4T is joining many of her fans in asking why she released her pre-wedding pictures with the face of the LUCKY man tactically hidden? In all pre-wedding photo display T4T had seen (when this fad came into being), it is always the faces of the soon to be joined couple smiling into the camera, but not for aunty Nkiru? E get wetin awa sista dey hide? But how na? Woman no dey fit hide pregnancy for nine months na…so las las, we go must see awa lucky bloda face. Anyway sha, congrats in advance. Real Reason They Are After Brymo’s Jugular The day singer Brymo publicly declared his support for one of the candidates in next month’s presidential election in the country, he became a target. The angry mob was just waiting for something to break that they will hinge their resentment for the young man on. So, forget this noise of “he insulted our ethnic nation” bla bla bla. They have said worse about other artistes like Joke Silva, Eniola Badmus, Igwe Olaiya among many others when they openly supported the same candidate Brymo is supporting. T4T had on several occasions cautioned that political and or other choices is the exclusive right of an individual and so no one should be persecuted or hounded because he chose to exercise any of those rights, but dem gree hear? If you are not supporting their preferred candidate, you don’t ‘love Nigeria’.
Brymo decided to serve them the soup they have been serving others since and hell has broken into small tiny pieces. So, they can’t even take a little of what they give to others. And to think these are people who are quick to call others ‘efulefu’ and the ‘slave’ of a certain ethnic nation simply because they did not agree with them politically. T4T read that a particular TV station has taken up the fight to pull Brymo down by all means necessary! Over 8,000 people, according to a news report have signed a petition for AFRIMA to drop his nomination from the awards. If Mike Dada (CEO of the awards body) likes, he should fall for the cheap blackmail. Let February 25 election day come and go fast abeg. 