The face-off between the five governors of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) also known as G-5, led by Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State and the Presidential candidate of the party, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, over the refusal of its national chairman, Iyorchia Ayu, to step down has polarised members of PDP in Cross River State. Investigations reveal that if the party leadership does not move fast to resolve the crisis and goes into the 2023 elections divided, its chances of victory will be very slim.
 
Since PDP presidential primaries, which former Vice President Atiku Abubakar won, all has not been well with the party, as the G-5 have remained insistent that Ayu resigned for equity, fairness and justice. This face-off is already taking its toll in the state, as its chairman Mr. Venatius Ikem and some members of his executive; the party’s governorship candidate, Senator Sandy Onor and his deputy Emana Duke; senatorial candidate in South, Ntufam Ekpo Okon; the incumbent Senator and senatorial candidate for the North, Agom Jarigbe Agom; House of Representatives member for Calabar Municipality/Odukpani Federal constituency and candidate for the party, Ntufam Eta Mbora; former governor Donald Duke; former deputy governor Mr Efiok Cobham (Onor’s campaign Director General in the South), a state lawmaker (Calabar Municipal), Mr.  Efa Isua; all the state House lawmakers and almost all the House of Assembly candidates and many others have pitched their tents with G-5.
 
On the other side, former Governor Liyel Imoke, Cross River caucus chairman in the National Assembly, Senator Gershom Bassey; Cross River Central Senatorial candidate, Mr. Bassey Ewa; the Abi/Yakurr Federal Representatives candidate, Mr. Eko Atu; former Bakassi Local Government Council chairman, Mr. Emmanuel Etene and others have publicly expressed their support for Atiku. 
 
Only recently, Wike donated 25 branded buses to Cross River PDP, which did not have Atiku’s pictures. The buses carry pictures and campaign messages from the governorship to House of Assembly candidates. Onor’s campaign offices in Calabar and other parts, billboards and banners by the Wike team showcasing their candidates in the state are also without Atiku and other candidates supporting him.
 
Similarly, in Atiku’s campaign office in Calabar, posters and banners pasted on the walls do not carry pictures of the candidates loyal to Wike. 