While 2022 is a tough and challenging year for the global automobile market, Chery has achieved a sales volume of over 100,000 units for five consecutive months in October and yearly sales volume of over one million units for the first time revealing its strength in bucking the trend. Chery’s monthly sales volume exceeded 100,000, with total sales soaring 50.4 per cent from a year earlier to 132,828 units. In a statement made available to The Guardian by Senior Sales Manager, Chery Overseas Investment Corp., Jason Han, said Chery sold a total of 1,026,758 units in the first 10 months, the best performance for the same period, with a year-on-year growth of 38.8 per cent, setting a record of over one million units in yearly cumulative sales for the first time. Han said Chery’s products have always been widely appreciated and welcomed in the global automobile market, especially the products of the TIGGO family under the “Hero Product Strategy”. The two major series of products, TIGGO 7 and TIGGO 8, have achieved a remarkable sales performance of 134,900 and 159,500 units respectively in the global market from January to October. He said particularly in South America, the Middle East and other regions, Chery has performed by leaps and bounds. In Brazil, from January to October this year, Chery’s cumulative sales volume stood at 29,854 units, with a market share of 2.38 per cent, ranking among the top 10 best-selling brands and outperforming some mainstream brands in Europe. Driven by the continued sales of the TIGGO family, Chery’s ARRIZO 6 also took the fancy of more and more Brazilian customers and won the best value resale award 2022. In the Middle East, he said Chery also achieved a double increase in terms of market sales and brand reputation. In particular, TIGGO 8 Pro was praised by senior media as “a brand new revolution brought to the automobile market in Qatar”, and has won the title of ‘The Most Intelligent Pioneer’. Han noted that the continued sales of Chery in the global market and the best performance for the same period are not only closely related to the excellent product quality, but also directly attributable to Chery’s deep commitment to customer service during the World Cup. According to him, in October, Chery launched an extensive series of activities during the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 in the global market, including lighting up landmarks in Qatar, Mexico, Brazil and other countries. With the official opening of the World Cup in November, Chery also kicked off the celebration to share the carnival and passion with millions of users around the world. During the World Cup, he said Chery is also actively carrying out various activities around the world. In Brazil, Chery will cooperate with top players and famous sports media in all aspects, and hold extremely exciting offline activities for thousands of users; and in the host country of Qatar, Chery will provide vehicles for the security department, as well as media vehicles for more than 10 competing countries.