All Progressives Congress (APC) Campaign Council in Kogi State has reaffirmed that Governor Yahaya Bello (GYB) is still behind the party’s presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu. It described insinuations that the governor has withdrawn support for Tinubu as absolute falsehood and a concoction borne out of malice. The Commissioner for Information and Director of Media and Publicity, Kogi APC Campaign Council, Kingsley Fanwo, in a statement, yesterday, flayed the report as one done in bad faith. Kogi APC said the publication was mischievous and out to create distrust, acrimony and chaos in the party by people who were desperately trying to disparage the unbending commitment of the governor to the success of the APC in the presidential election. Fanwo assured the public that Bello’s unflinching commitment to the campaign was not in doubt among committed stakeholders of the APC at all levels. He said: “GYB is constantly on the drawing board, galvanising Kogites and youths across Nigeria to massively support the man he calls the president-in-waiting.” This will definitely not go down well with open and veiled detractors of our presidential candidate, who would go to any length to paint a picture of crisis where there is none. “Aside from winning and sustaining the support of the majority of Nigerian youths for Tinubu, Governor Bello has effectively mobilised Kogites to deliver not less than 95 per cent Kogi votes to the presidential candidate of our party. It is, therefore, not a surprise that those who want to share in the glory of the impending landslide victory without contributing to the efforts are hiding behind ‘the evils of journalistic anonymity’ to cause disaffection,” he said. Explaining that Bello has always been the star boy of the party, having delivered on critical assignments in the state and at the national level, Fanwo recalled that the governor recently registered youths, women and people living with disabilities into the APC. According to him, the governor is proud of the presidential candidate of his party and has no doubt whatsoever in the capacity of Tinubu to take Nigeria to the desired level. “It is laughable, ludicrous and unthinkable to insinuate that the man working so hard to deliver massive votes for the presidential candidate of the party is the one naysayers would accuse of non-commitment.” 