Former President Goodluck Jonathan, Dr. Dauda Lawal, Dr. Jennifer Douglas and 11 other Nigerians have been named among the 2023 ‘100 Most Reputable Africans’. The ‘roll of honour’ was released by Reputation Poll International (RPI), a global reputation firm. The list features individuals from diverse sectors, including governance/leadership, entertainment, human rights/advocacy, education, and business. The selection criteria are integrity, visibility, and impact. Prominent personalities featured on the list include Kenya’s Amina Chawahir Mohamed; South Africa’s Bonang Mohale, Chancellor at the University of the Free State and Professor at Johannesburg Business School; and Cameroun’s Njoya Tiku, Manager of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Regional Office in West and Central Africa. On governance and policy, the roll has, among others: Kenya’s President, William K. Ruto; Lazarus Chakwera, President of Malawi; and Ivory Coast Senator Chantal Moussokoura Fanny. On business, there are: Egypt’s Naguib Onsi Sawiris, Chairman of Weather Investment’s parent company; Ghana’s Sir Samuel Esson Jonah, Chancellor of the University of Cape Coast and Executive Chairman of Jonah Capital; South Africa’s Carol Bouwer: and Nigeria’s Dr. Dauda Lawal, Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Credent Capital and Advisory. On human rights and advocacy, there are: Martha K. Koome, Chief Justice of Kenya, and Nigeria’s Aisha Yesufu. On leadership, the roll has: Ethiopia’s President, Sahle Work-Zedwe; Nigeria’s Dr. Paul Enenche, Founder and General Overseer, The Dunamis International Gospel Centre; and Ghana’s Afua Kyei, Chief Financial Officer at Bank of England, where she leads the Finance Directorate. In addition to the individuals recognised, there are also those who are celebrated for their contributions to social impact and social entrepreneurship, helping to transform businesses in Africa and positively impacting lives without causing controversy. During announcement of the list, Ms. Beldina Auma, the Co-Chairperson of the Review and Audit Committee, as well as Chair Emeritus of the World Bank Group-IMF African Society, President of SCIP-International, said the organisation is dedicated to recognising people, groups, and businesses who continually improve lives in Africa and around the world. 