…Says His Friendship With Udom, Intact
Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has told politicians not to allow politics to create unwarranted friction between them and their brothers. This is as the governor stated that his relationship with the Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel, still remains intact, irrespective of their political differences. Governor Wike stated these yesterday, after a private meeting with Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State and Udom at his private residence in Rumueprikom, Obio-Akpor Local Council. Governor Udom, is the chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential campaign council whose candidate, Atiku Abubakar has been at daggers drawn with Wike. The Rivers State Governor, in a statement by his Special Assistant on Media, Kelvin Ebiri, described the meeting as convivial, stating that it was completely devoid of politics. “Politics is not what will divide brothers and divide friends. Everybody knows my relationship with Udom, and we will continue to maintain that relationship. We may have different political affiliation or thinking, that should not divide the brotherly love or create a gap among us.” Also speaking, Governor Udom explained that his visit was not political, but a demonstration of brotherly love in the spirit of the yuletide season. “Actually, this is the season of love. Within this period if we don’t demonstrate that love, love not shown is love wasted. I think that is what we are trying to demonstrate, brotherly love, and friendship. And then in the spirit of the season, we must visit one another.” Similarly, the Benue State Governor, Ortom explained that part of their discussion also centered on how they can best add value to governance in Nigeria. “We are going into 2023 and we shared among ourselves how can we best add value to our government, how can we best add value to our people, how can we do things that will help add value to our country Nigeria. “And that if there are issues in the past, which we have done wrong, we looked at it and said look let’s forgive one another and move forward. They are private issues.” 