Download logo The Government of Japan has stepped up its support to refugees and displaced families in Somalia with a contribution of USD 3,086,398 to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in Somalia.  Somalia continues to struggle with the most severe drought in its recent history – in 2022, close to 1.2 million individuals were displaced due to the ongoing drought. The recurrent and often prolonged climate-induced shocks have decimated livelihood opportunities and are driving widespread displacement. According to the UNHCR-led Protection and Return Monitoring Network, displaced families have reported livelihoods and shelter as some of their most urgent needs on arrival. “The trend of recurring droughts in Somalia shows that there is a critical need to invest in durable solutions in Somalia, including livelihoods and sustainable shelter, in order to build communities’ resilience to cope with the impacts of climate change, insecurity and other drivers of vulnerability” says Magatte Guisse, UNHCR Representative in Somalia. Through the generous support from the people of Japan, UNHCR will implement activities aimed at improving protection and solutions to refugees, asylum-seekers, returnees, IDPs and the vulnerable host community in Somalia. UNHCR will provide durable and transitional shelters to promote local integration and advance human security while enhancing physical protection of families. Increasing access to livelihoods and income-generating activities allows vulnerable families to meet their basic needs, while decreasing the likelihood of resorting to negative coping mechanisms. The additional contribution comes at a critical time, as the people of Somalia continue to battle with the effects of climate change, global increase in food prices, and continued insecurity. With the support from Japan, UNHCR will strengthen resilience and protection of the most vulnerable people in Somalia. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).