Kano Central Senatorial candidate under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Lailah Buhari, said the National Working Committee of the party has aggravated the internal crisis that is threatening it’s organs in Kano State. Buhari specifically pointed an accusing finger at the National Chairman, Senator Iyorchia Ayu for allegedly smoldering ember of discord among various interest groups and worried that the widening division, if not addressed, would frustrate PDP chances during elections. Buhari, the only female candidate seeking elective position across parties in Kano, told journalist yesterday that she’s committed to making history in next month election despite the legal burden. The court of appeal recently upheld the outcome of PDP primary in Kano that produced Buhari as the right and duly elected candidate for Kano central senatorial district against the parallel process that produced another aspirant Nuhu Danburam. While Buhari was elected under the primary conducted by factional PDP Chairman, Shehu Sagagi, the former House of Representatives member, Danburam got the same nomination through the parallel process organized by Ambassador Aminu Wali led faction on the same day. Although Danburam had secured the federal high court verdict in his favor, the appellate court of jurisdiction upturned the judgement of the lower court thereby ordered the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to recognize and publish Buhari’s name for the poll. Danburam has headed to supreme court to challenge the invalidation of his nomination, the female candidate was optimistic of victory at the apex court and at the poll. According to her, “the Court of Appeal judgement is in my favour although they have a stay of execution which only the Supreme Court can hear but has not heard. Only the Supreme Court can give final judgment on their appeal which is yet to hold. We are confident INEC will do the needful to change names on their portal after S. Court’s verdict. “So, we are optimistic of victory at both sides. Even though, you may not be seeing me physical for now but we are fully prepared for campaign and we have roll out our activities for campaign across the 13 local government areas that constituted Kano central. Kano will have the first female representative at the National assembly this time by the grace of God.” Lamenting on the crisis rocking the party, Buhari said the division had continued to linger because of the poor handling of the national working committee, led by Senator Ayu. She insisted that instead of addressing the contentious issues, the National Chairman has succeeded in widening the division. “Because of the personal issues between him and Kwankwaso, Ayu will not listen to any complain from any member, who does not belong to Aminu Wali faction. He kept saying the Chairman Shehu Sagagi is Kwankwaso’s boy, I will not listen to anyone in Sagagi camp but I told him that is not fair. “Sagagi was duly elected and he conducted primary under the supervisor of national delegates. That process produced candidates who followed due process from purchase of nomination form to the end of the primary. I don’t think members in Kano should be treated the why and manner Ayu did. That’s will not resolve our division.” 