Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential campaign train landed in Asaba, the Delta State capital, yesterday, with a crowd thronging the Stephen Keshi Stadium to welcome the party’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, and his running mate, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, and other top members from across the country. As early as 9.30 a.m., Asaba was virtually shut down, except for the expressway. The crowd became frenzy when the dignitaries arrived in a coaster bus around 12.30 p.m. and were later driven in an open vehicle around the stadium. In his speech, Atiku vowed to ensure adequate security and grow the country’s economy if he emerges President in next month’s election, adding that the PDP grew the economy to become the largest economy in Africa between 1999 and 2015, when it held sway, regretting that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) destroyed it with its inept leadership since assuming power in 2015. Atiku assured the party faithful that with adequate security and the right economic policies, his administration would attract Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) to grow Nigeria’s economy The PDP presidential flag-bearer, stated: “The Niger Delta and other parts of the country will benefit from our resource control and restructuring agenda because it is our intention to devolve more powers to the states and local governments to tackle peculiar challenges facing the people. “The APC government has disunited Nigeria in all aspects and it is our commitment to restore the unity of this country by ensuring that every part of this country has a sense of belonging. “You must believe in PDP because as a party, we built the biggest economy in Africa until the APC came and destroyed it in 2015. Why vote for the same party that has suffered us in the last seven years plus? Let us vote them out to unite and rebuild our country again.” On his part, Okowa said Atiku knows how to address socio-economic challenges bedeviling the country and urged the people to vote for the PDP. The governor said: “How can a bag of rice be sold for almost N50, 000? It is only Atiku that can solve the problems in the country, because when the PDP took over the reigns of power in 1999, Atiku with President Olusegun Obasanjo were able to restore the nation’s lost glory.” National Chairman of the party, Dr. Iyorchia Ayu, congratulated Delta citizens on the choice of Okowa as the vice presidential candidate and lauded previous governors of the state for their contributions to its growth and development. The rally, attended by a former Vice President, Namadi Sambo; former Senate President, Bukola Saraki; Governors Aminu Tambuwal (Sokoto); Udom Emmanuel (Akwa-Ibom); Godwin Obaseki (Edo); Douye Diri (Bayelsa) and Ahmadu Fintiri (Adamawa), PDP governorship candidate, Sheriff Oborevwori, and his running mate, Monday Onyeme, and senatorial, House of Representatives and state House of Assembly candidates, witnessed the defection of state Secretary of APC, Nick Ovuakporie, among others.