Executive Vice Chairman (EVC), National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI), Prof. Mohammad Haruna, has described the agency’s establishment as a way of tackling unemployment, drug addiction, political thuggery and other social vices among youths. In his opening remarks at the groundbreaking and foundation laying ceremony of NASENI Skill Acquisition Centre in Bagudo Local Council of Kebbi State, yesterday, Haruna said the future of nations and societies is predicated on the attitude and preparedness of youths, who are the leaders of tomorrow. “The foundation stone-laying ceremony of NASENI Skill Acquisition Centre in Bagudo is in line with President Muhammad Buhari’s directives across country,” he said. According to the EVC, countries that invest adequately in technology acquisition and deployment lead in socio-economic development, even if they import all the raw material needs of their economy. He said the agency is building capacity of its workforce, acquiring knowledge and deploying emerging technologies of next industrial revolution to meet domestic challenges. “The ongoing skill development, youth empowerment and establishment of skill development centres across the country are in fulfilment of Federal Government’s new empowerment and provision of a competent manpower for the country,” he stated. He, therefore, said the soft components of manufacturing or knowledge-based economy is quality human resources, while the requisite to transit Nigeria to a manufacturing economy could be categorised into four groups, namely craftsmen and women, technicians and technologists, scientists and engineers as well as professional experience enough to have inquisitive minds and continuous improvement. Delivering his goodwill message, the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Mallami, commended Buhari for establishing the agency, which has impacted the less-privileged, especially the youth and women in Kebbi State. No fewer than 100 youth and women have benefited from the NASENI programme on agriculture, he said, while applauding the
EVC for his commitment to sanitising the programme. Governor Abubakar Bagudu of Kebbi Buhari for bringing development to the rural areas. “We, the people of Kebbi, are happy with you. You gave us University of Agriculture, Zuru; College of Education, Yauri; and another College of Education Bagudo. May God continue to guide you and blesse your family,” he said. 