President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday sent condolences to Governor Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State over the passing of his son, Alhaji Hassan A.A Sule, at 36 years. In a message, the President said “my deepest and heartfelt condolences to the Governor and his family on the tragic death of his worthy son, Hassan.” President Buhari also reiterated his prayers and condolences to the government and people of the state following the recent tragedy involving herdsmen. President Buhari, in a statement signed by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, prayed God to rest the souls of all the deceased. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has also commiserated with the governor over the death of his son. Osinbajo expressed his condolence when he visited the country-home of the Sule in Gudi town, Nasarawa State, yesterday. He was received by the governor and the Governors of Kebbi and Borno states, Atiku Bagudu and Babagana Zulum. The Emir of Lafia was also at the condolence event at the palace of the Sarkin Gudi, Alhaji Sule Bawa, alongside other traditional rulers. “This is a very tragic and sad day indeed for me, as I am sure it is for all of you here in Nasarawa. I want to say to my brother, the governor, and to members of the family as well as your Royal Highness and all those who are here to condole with him, that we pray the Almighty God will comfort him and members of the family. We pray that God who gives and takes will have mercy on him, the family and on all of us,” Osinbajo said. The presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has also expressed sympathy and deep sorrow over a recent bomb explosion, which claimed the lives of 30 persons in Nasarawa State, as well as the death of Governor Sule’s son. Tinubu described as sad and unfortunate the bombing of residents of Kwateri, a community between the state and Benue, last Tuesday, by an unidentified drone. A statement by the Tinubu Media Office signed by Mr. Abdulaziz Abdulaziz, yesterday, quoted the APC candidate as expressing condolences to the affected families and people and government of Nasarawa State. “While still mourning the unfortunate deaths from the pathetic explosion, we woke up to yet another tragedy.  I join Governor Sule in mourning over these two tragic deaths. This is a difficult time and my thoughts are with Governor Sule and the government and people of the state. “The loss of a son, a grown up one for that matter, is a deeply sorrowful experience. I also send my sympathy and condolences to Governor Abdullahi family for this irreparable loss,” he said. Tinubu also expressed condolences to the leadership of Miyetti Allah and family members of those who lost their lives in the Kwateri bomb explosion. He prayed for the repose of the souls of the departed persons and asked God to give their families fortitude to bear the loss. 