Download logo On January 10, 2023 local time, Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed Ali met with visiting Chinese Foreign Minister Qin Gang in Addis Ababa.  Abiy once again extended warm congratulations on the successful conclusion of the 20th National Congress of the Communist Party of China and expressed his deep admiration for President Xi Jinping's outstanding leadership and political wisdom. He said that Ethiopia looks forward to strengthening exchanges of experience in state governance with China, so as to unite and lead all Ethiopian people in upholding independence and accelerating national revitalization. Abiy said that Qin Gang's choice of Ethiopia as the first stop of his first overseas visit since taking office fully demonstrates the profound friendship between the two countries and the importance of bilateral relations. Ethiopia's cooperation with China in such areas as infrastructure, green economy, agriculture and industrial park construction has been exemplary and produced remarkable results, helping Ethiopia to rank among the fastest-growing economies in Africa. More Chinese enterprises are welcome to invest and do business in Ethiopia. Qin Gang said, with President Xi Jinping at the helm, China will press ahead with its modernization with Chinese characteristics on all fronts, unswervingly follow the path of peaceful development, remain committed to the fundamental national policy of opening up to the outside world and a mutually beneficial strategy of opening-up, adding certainty, stability and positive energy to a world in the midst of changes and turbulence and bringing new opportunities for the development of all countries. Qin Gang said, since China and Ethiopia established diplomatic relations more than half a century ago, the two countries have always helped each other and moved forward side by side no matter how the international situation changed, setting a fine example of solidarity and cooperation among developing countries. China supports Ethiopia in pursuing a development path suited to its own national conditions. Leaders of the two countries have maintained close exchanges in recent years, charting the course for the development of China-Ethiopia relations under the new circumstances. As major developing countries sharing visions and joining hands in the pursuit of modernization, China and Ethiopia need to be partners that firmly support each other, pursue common development and uphold international fairness and justice. China is ready to deepen and expand bilateral cooperation in various fields and encourage more Chinese enterprises to invest in Ethiopia and participate in Ethiopia's reconstruction. Qin Gang expressed his hope that Ethiopia will provide a sound business environment and take effective measures to protect the security and safety as well as the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese personnel and institutions. During his visit, Qin Gang also held talks with Ethiopian Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Demeke Mekonnen Hassen. The two sides signed a memorandum of understanding on political consultation between the two foreign ministries and other cooperation documents. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Embassy of the People’s Republic of China in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.