Deputy President of the Nigerian Senate and governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Delta State, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, has warned that any bank, lending institution, or credit union that lends or advances money to the administration of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, so close to the end of its tenure, does so at it’s own risk. Okowa, who is also the running mate of the PDP’s presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar, is in the final months of his eight year-reign as governor of the oil-rich state. The warning was contained in a statement Omo-Agege personally approved “on behalf of the supporters of the APC and the generality of the people of Delta State.” “It has come to the knowledge of the APC and the general public that the government of Delta state is yet again negotiating a loan facility for ₦40 billion,” read the statement. “It is our understanding that the need for such a facility has not been made public, neither has the purpose for which the credit is being sought. “It is also to our knowledge that a bill seeking the approval for such a facility has not been presented before the House of Assembly and neither has approval been obtained. “Now, therefore, be it known to all banks, lending institutions, credit agencies etc that any facility, loan, credit, advancement or borrowing by any other name known, made or advanced to the government of Delta state in the course of the remaining tenure of the present administration will not be acceptable to the people of Delta state. “The next administration and the citizens of Delta state will not be further encumbered by the rascality and profligacy of the present government. “We state unequivocally that the state has over borrowed and the citizens will not accept the encumbrance and obligations of further borrowing. “Any bank, lending institution, credit institution etc which lends or advances money to the government of Delta state at this time, does so at its own risk. Please be warned,” the statement said. 