Tinubu’s agenda based on personal interest, says Atiku campaign group
A Member of the Board of Trustees of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and National Coordinator of BAT Ambassadors, Alhaji Jamiu Jimoh Afolabi, yesterday, urged Nigerians to vote for the presidential flagbearer of the party, Ahmed Bola Tinubu, so that he could help get rid of bandits from the forests. Afolabi, who stated this in Ado-Ekiti at a sensitisation meeting held with Muslim leaders from the 16 local councils of the state, lamented that Muslims in the South-West don’t come out to vote like their counterparts from the North. He, however, said that the presidential candidate of the APC would score over 70 per cent of the total votes from Ekiti on February 25, this year. He cautioned that voting for Tinubu was like voting for oneself and children, noting that the APC flagbearer is just a nominal beneficiary. Also, the Ekiti Coordinator of the BAT Ambassadors, Alhaji Adedipe Adebayo, said that Muslims were part and parcel of Nigeria and can’t be indifferent to what is going on politically. “We can’t separate religion from politics. Those of us who are Muslims believe that we are part of Nigeria and that whatever is going on in the country, we must feel concerned. “We can’t allow those who are not competent to be leading us. We heard what Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu has done in Nigeria and we believe that he is capable of ruling the country. This is why we gathered here to mobilise to win the presidential election.” MEANWHILE, the Oyo State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential campaign group has said that Tinubu’s agenda is based on his personal interest with the popular saying EMILOKAN. This was disclosed at a media briefing held ahead of the forthcoming road walk for the presidential candidate of the PDP, Abubakar Atiku, by prominent members of the party at the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) Press Centre, Iyaganku, Ibadan. The former Minister of Mines and Steel, Wole Oyelese, said another four years of the APC in government would ruin Nigeria. Oyelese, while addressing journalists, said the Nigerian economy was much better than what it is currently experiencing during the tenure of former Presidents Olusegun Obasanjo and Goodluck Jonathan. He said that Abubakar would rescue Nigeria from bondage and suffering. The former Deputy Governor of Oyo State, Hazeem Gbolarumi, in his address, said the theme of the walk was carefully chosen to reflect the current precarious economic, security and political mess that the APC-led Federal Government has plunged the country into, saying that the desire for liberation requires the joint efforts of all Nigerians to flush APC out of government. Also, the former Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Jumoke Akinjide, who spoke on the five governors popularly known as G-5, said the media are more interested in plight than Nigerians suffering. 