The attainment of Nigeria’s food security dream is taking a new dimension with the emergence of a mobile application platform – upgraded NISSAGRO mobile app (Version 2.0), to help researchers, scientists and other stakeholders provide appropriate services to farmers.  Adediran said: “If farmers do not have access to the app, they may end up in the hands of quacks who would demand money from them. The purpose of this initiative is to ensure farmers have direct linkage with NISS, either at the headquarters in Abuja or in the Southwest region.  He however, agreed that the literacy level in the region might be a limitation to the efficiency of the initiative. “The few ones – those already trained are supposed to be knowledgeable enough and should be ready to assist other farmers. That’s why we encouraged step-down training for other farmers around them through Agricultural Development Programmes (ADP), which they started after the training of the first version of the NISSAGRO app.  
 
Earlier, in her welcome address, the Executive Director of IAR&T, Prof. Veronica Obatolu, while charging the participants to make good use of the knowledge received, said farming is no more for the illiterate but educated fellows which according to her will bring more productivity.
 
“No matter how good the seed is, the soil needs to be given solid attention because on it the farming rely. With the mobile app, we will all be able to be precise and achieve greater height.”
 
The Director of Extension, Ministry of Agriculture, Oyo State, Mr. Moruf Razak, in his remarks, lauded the NISS initiative to boost the farmers’ knowledge in promoting mechanised and digital farming.
 
He however, urged the participants to make the best use of the opportunity and ensure the training is extended to other farmers in their respective zones to compliment efforts of the NISS.
 
One of the farmers, Alhaji Salihu Imam, who is the chairman of Agric Development Farmers Association and coordinator of OYSADEP Farmers Field School, thanked the NISS for upgrading the application, which according to him will enable the farmers exchange better ideas to boost food production.
 
The resource person, who is the Head of Inspectorate and Accreditation Department, NISS, Abuja, Nafiu Adewale, who took the participants through the technical use of NISSAGRO, also urged them to ensure the training is transferred to others so as to improve agricultural productions.