The Lagos State government has reassured residents and motorists that it would continue engaging relevant stakeholders until traffic gridlocks around Apapa-Port axis are totally eradicated. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Transportation, Sola Giwa, disclosed this at the weekend, during an interactive meeting with relevant stakeholders, including officials of Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) on permanent solutions to Apapa traffic gridlocks, held at the Ministry of Transportation, Alausa, Ikeja. Giwa disclosed that despite the success recorded in managing traffic around Apapa with the introduction of the Electronic Call-up System (ETO) to petroleum tankers, the state government is still working tirelessly to resolve other challenges to enable seamless journey for motorists. The special adviser maintained that the government remains committed to establish a process that would be seen as fair and beneficial to everyone, no matter the delay. “When the road is free, motorists will move freely without traffic, and tankers’ turnover will be high. Traffic causes health, security and other social problems.” He emphasised that the administration of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu is discussing the involvement of private sector in providing a parking space where tankers could temporarily park, while awaiting their individual call-up for loading. Officials at the meeting, who agreed with the suggestion, set up a committee with terms of accommodating other stakeholders in the call-up system. Speaking earlier, Comrade Kilanko Solomon who represented NUPENG commended the special adviser for working round the clock in ensuring free flow of traffic around Apapa and other parts of the state. He however, said that his organisation is ready to cooperate with the state government in providing lasting solutions to the perennial traffic around the entire Apapa-Port area. Other stakeholders at the meeting include, officials of the NPA, MOMAN, PTD Lagos Zonal Command, NUPENG, STIC, Ardova Plc, Conoil and officials of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA). 