The Special Adviser to Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State on Works and Infrastructure, Mrs Aramide Adeyoye, says it makes a lot of sense for residents, especially technocrats, to re-elect the governor for the second term. Adeyoye made this remark while delivering a keynote address at a hybrid interactive session with technocrats, organised by the Tinubu/Shettima and Sanwo-Olu/Hamzat Independent Campaign Council (ICC), Directorate of Professional Women. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the hybrid session, held on Saturday night, had experts from various fields and professional associations in attendance. It was hosted by Dr Atinuke Owolabi, Director, Professional Women Directorate, ICC, and tagged “A one-hour interactive session with professionals on the implementation of strategies and tactics developed to give “#RenewedHope* to Nigeria” and “#AGreaterLagosRising”. Enumerating the numerous accomplishments of the current administration in the area of works and infrastructure, Adeyoye said that the government had delivered so many inherited abandoned projects while also instituting and completed many. She reeled out efforts of the Sanwo-Olu administration in improving transportation and infrastructure, including improved roundabouts in Lekki, Ikeja and other areas to ease gridlock. She said the Lagos State Public Works Corporation (LSPWC) was empowered to increase its asphalt production capacity and became efficient using cold and hot mixes for both dry and wet season road rehabilitation works. The aide listed ongoing projects at various stages of completion as well as completed ones and newly initiated ones undergoing procurement as reasons to re-elect the Sanwo-Olu team. “The two (Sanwo-Olu and Hamzat) of them have a heart to serve, they have a vision that is in tandem with the needs of Lagos residents. “It makes a lot of sense to vote Sanwo-Olu back so that they can complete what they have started, Let us go out, collect our PVCs and vote wisely. More importantly, we have a state to build and a nation,” Adeyoye said. The aide, who is a fellow of the Nigerian Society of Engineers, said the current administration had also given opportunities to professionals to contribute their quotas towards taking the state to the next level. According to her, the administration has not also failed in providing opportunities for women to mainstream gender in all its activities. “Women have made a lot of differences with a lot of potentials. It is time for professionals to take the bull by the horns and not sit on the fence. The first step is to pick your PVCs and be involved,” she added. The aide said that the government would continue to engage all professionals and urged the technocrats to develop a think tank or a pressure group to make the government reckon more with them. She said the experts had failed the nation in the past and must rebuild the ruins by taking the lead in performing their civic responsibilities of voting and sensitising Nigerians on the right choices. According to her, whatever the professionals plan to bring to the table will count in determining the kind of attention they would attract from government. She said although the ICC group was party affiliated, it was still about Nigeria, hence the need to vote massively for the APC who are progressives. In her remarks, the host, Owolabi, who commended the speaker and other professionals, said that their insightful contributions, showed that the experts in various fields were ready to build the country. According to her, the government recognition of the professionals necessitated the creation of the directorate and experts must use the forum to make impact in the nation’s governance. “We must not continue to talk without putting action into it. We must build this country. As professionals, let us serve as role model, we must not sit back and watch on. Getting involved is our civil responsibility,” she said. Owolabi, who urged her professional colleagues to vote massively for the APC in all elections, said that the APC Presidential Candidate, Sen. Bola Tinubu, and Sanwo-Olu had track records of engaging professionals. Other contributors, including Mrs James Adeyemi from the U.S., called for a strong advocacy group of professionals who would work to build the nation of everyone’s dream. NAN reports that the Chief host was Mr Tayo Ayinde, the Director General (DG), ICC, while Cardinal James Odunmbaku (MFR) was the Chairman, ICC.