In its bid to ensure free, fair and credible elections, the Centre for Grassroots Development and Crime Prevention (CGDCP), says it has trained over 900 observers that are to be deployed nationwide. Its Executive Director and Security Advisor, Amb. Prince Emeka Mgbemere, who disclosed this in a statement, yesterday, in Abuja, said that the observers would monitor the accreditation, voting and counting processes on election day, across the country, including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). According to Mgbemere, a total of 920 polling unit observers will monitor the accreditation, voting and counting processes, with states and LGA0 mobile (roving) observers present in all the states and local councils. The director said that the body is fully ready to observe the 2023 general elections by training long-time and short-time observers, including observation of the political campaigns of some of the political parties. Mgbemere said: “The organisation will carryout a comprehensive observation of the 2023 election, including systematic observation of voting and counting at a sampling of polling, using the PVT methodology and employing information and communication technology (ICT) to rapidly transmit observers. “Since 2007, we have been involved in all the activities organised by INEC, ranging from Continuous Voters Registration, (CVR), Voter Education workshops and election observations, promoting openness and accountability in government through programmes, safeguarding elections integrity and encouraging citizen’s participation. “Observers will report on the opening of polling units, accreditation and voting, counting and recording/posting of results. Observers will also send in official results as announced by the election officials at polling units to our data Center/ Election Situation Team.” He said with the results assembled from the sampled polling units, CGDCP observers could release projected estimates and verify the accuracy of results declared by the election management body. On his part, the Executive Director on Programmes and Elections, Mr. Ozuem Esiri, said the Parallel Vote Tabulation (PVT), methodology would be deployed during the 2023 general elections, and would serve as a source of truth to provide information on the electoral process and verify the accuracy of election results. He further stated that the organisation will put together an election situation room to receive data from observers from the polling units and local councils, Collate, Verify, Report and Transmit result.