Recover three vehicles, arms Operatives of the Imo State Police Command have killed three suspected terrorists who allegedly mobilised to attack a police facility. The Command’s Public Relations Officer, Michael Abattam, in a statement, yesterday, said the Command had received a distressed call when the hoodlums moved to Agwa Police Station, in Oguta Local Council. He said security agents swooped on and overpowered them. However, he said some of the hoodlums escaped with bullet wounds, while the policeman who sustained injury in the process is undergoing treatment. According to the statement, three vehicles, arms and ammunition were recovered from the suspects. The statement reads: “On January 18, 2023 at about 1130hrs, in response to a distress call that, hoodlums suspected to be members of the Proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and its armed affiliate Eastern Security Network (ESN) had attacked Agwa Central Vigilante Group, burning down their office and are proceeding to attack and set ablaze Agwa Police Station both in Oguta LGA of Imo State, the combatant Command’s Tactical Teams swiftly mobilised to the area. Having been informed that the hoodlums had cordoned the station, the police operatives tactically maneuvered their way into the station and professionally engaged the hoodlums in a fierce gun duel, and in the process three of the hoodlums were neutralised while others scampered for safety into adjoining bushes with gun shot wounds, abandoning three of their operational vehicles.” The Command said: “The operatives on combing the bush, recovered: two Pump Action guns, two Double Barrel guns, 24 rounds or live ammunition, 12 expended cartridges, one Improvised Explosive Device, three operational vehicles; one green coloured Lexus 470GL, one black coloured Toyota Highlander, one Oxblood coloured mini bus, two motorcycles, one iron box, one travelling bag and assorted charms.”
“Meanwhile, the corpse of the hoodlums have been evacuated and deposited in the mortuary while, efforts to arrest the fleeing suspects are in top gear since they cannot go far due to the  bullet injuries they sustained in the gun duel. The police operative who sustained minor bullet injury was rushed to the hospital for treatment and he is in a stable condition.” The command also urged residents of the state to collaborate with the police: “The Command is using this medium to call on the good people of the state to collaborate with the Police and other security agencies in the fight against terrorism and to report any suspicious activities or persons seen treating gun shot wound within their community to the nearest police station or call the Command’s emergency numbers 08034773600 or 08098880197.” 