The New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) on Monday unveiled its Presidential Campaign Council, with its presidential candidate of the Rabiu Kwankwaso as chairman of the council. This is coming 47 days before the Presidential and National Assembly elections scheduled for February 25, 2023. Addressing supporters of the party in Abuja during the inauguration of the council, Kwankwaso said the team is structured into four organs, namely the PCC, Management of the PCC, Board of Advisors, and the Committees of the PCC which would work in sync for the success of the party in 2023 general elections. While disclosing his plans for Nigerians, the former Kano governor assured that he and his party were determined to reform the education sector to improve quality and access at all levels. Specifically, Kwankwaso pledged that if elected, he would provide 500 thousand classrooms across the states of the federation to accommodate the over 20 million out-of-school children in Nigeria. “We will make all application forms for admission and employment free; we will make all examinations such us WAEC, NECO, NABTEB, NBIAS, JAMB etc. free; we will introduce a four-year moratorium for JAMB so that our children can use the same JAMB results to gain admission into our tertiary education institutions. “We will upgrade and expand all our universities, polytechnics and colleges of education and raise their standard to global competitiveness. We will upgrade and expand all our universities, polytechnics and colleges of education and raise their standard to global competitiveness”, he stated. Kwankwaso also disclosed that he would honour the invitation of the world-leading policy institute and think-tank forum, Chatham House to discuss his plans for Nigerians ahead of the elections. He said the NNPP embarked on presidential road campaign with visit to 33 states of the federation and 300 local government areas while there are plans to go to the remaining ones. Kwankwaso said they deliberately chose to do the road campaign to avail themselves with the difficulties that Nigerian road users are living with across rhe country and to see the day-to-day challenges confronting Nigerian masses in their communities. “We have covered tens of thousands of kilometres and visited over 300 local government areas so far. We have gone through difficult terrains, visited hard-to-reach communities like Illela in Sokoto state, Kauran Namoda in Zamfara state, Kamba in Kebbi State, Mubi in Adamawa State, Ikom and Ughep in Cross River state, Geidam in Yobe State, Ikare in Ondo state, Kwoi in Kaduna state and numerous such other places. “In all the places we visited, throughout our road campaign, we took time to visit the traditional and religious leaders in the areasbecause of our determination to carry them along when eventually we took over the mantle of leadership of the country. “In particular these leaders will be the drivers of our flagship initiative of Community Participation and Reorientation Committees, CPRC, which we intend to create at all the 8809  wards. This committees will be funded directly from the Federal Government through appropriate legislations. “Our experiences on the Road Campaign has further strengthened our commitment to the Pledges that we have made to Nigerians. While working to complete the remaining three states and commence the second round of states road campaigns, I am happy to announce that beginning from the 12th of this month, we will start our Zonal Rallies in Bauchi for the Northeast, Kaduna on  the 14th for the Northwest, and Lafia on the 16th for the Northcentral.” 