Director-General of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential Campaign Council (PCC), Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State, has said the people of Plateau and Nigerians at large will vote APC again, because of its achievements in the area of peace, development and justice. The governor said this at the Bit Pol Cultural Festival in his hometown, N’yak, Shendam Local Council of Plateau, while celebrating the New Year.
According to a statement by the Director of Press and Public Affairs to the Governor, Dr. Makut Macham, the governor said the APC under his ‘Rescue Administration’ has done a lot to restore peace to the Plateau and address previous acts of injustice, exclusion and division. He cited the restoration of traditional stools and creation of new ones as a very important step taken by his government to emancipate the people and give them a sense of belonging in the affairs of the state. Such actions, together with the creation of the Peace Building Agency as well as opening up room for dialogue, understanding and unity, he added, made it possible for people to seek common grounds and stand against division and unpatriotic conduct. While thanking his people for always supporting him and voting for the APC, Lalong expressed confidence that such support would manifest in the polls when they vote to elect the president and a governor to succeed him in weeks to come. He said as the DG of the Tinubu/Shettima Campaign Council, he could guarantee that the party’s candidates would do justice to all Nigerians, irrespective of their backgrounds. Deputy Speaker, House of Representatives, Idris Wase, said the people of Nyak should be very proud to have produced an illustrious son like Lalong, who is humble, patriotic and honest. Lalong, he said, is a leader, who knows the road to victory and success and deserves to be supported by not only his kinsmen but also the people of Plateau, as he has the connections and capacity to protect their interests in national politics. APC gubernatorial candidate for Plateau, Dr. Nentawe Yilwatda, while assuring the people of Nyak that he would continue with the legacies of Lalong and ensure that peace and stability persist in the state, said the residents would witness greater things as he builds in the legacies of the Rescue Administration. Yilwatda said he would continue to support the Bit Pol Cultural Festival and make sure that Plateau people become more united and prosperous. The Chairman, Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON) in the state, Alex Naantuam, said the Pol Unity and Cultural Festival has continued to bring in people from around the country yearly, which is a testament to the unity and progress that exist within Nyak community as well as collaboration with their sons and daughters. Chairman of the Pol Unity and Cultural Association (PUCA), Audu Inuwa, appreciated Lalong for giving the community a sense of pride through his exploits in politics and performance as governor Plateau, Chairman of Northern States Governors Forum and DG of Tinubu/Shettima Campaign Council. 