The Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) has warned the general public and eligible applicants not to pay anyone to get recruitment into the service. NIS in a statement said the recruitment process is free and selection is based on merit. Immigration recently opened its portal for the 2023 recruitment of interested applicants across the country into the civil defence, correctional, fire, and immigration services board departments. The government agency said that it does not take part in any form of cash transaction during the recruitment process. NIS urged the public and applicants to report any of its personnel caught collecting money to the police or any relevant anti-corruption agency. “The Nigeria immigration services will at no point in time, during its current recruitment process, request that you pay any amount of money,” NIS said in a tweet “Anyone, officers or otherwise, requesting monies be paid – cash or transfer, to him/her/them, with assurance that slots have been provided to him/her/them guarteenting employment into the services  should be immediately reported to the police or any relevant anti-corruption agency. Recruitment into the services is purely based on merit.” Meanwhile, the application for recruitment into Immigration to fill vacancies began on Monday, January 16, 2023, and will end on Monday, January 30, two weeks after. The positions are Superintendent Of Immigration (SI) CONPASS 11 (Medical Doctors), Deputy Superintendent Of Immigration (DSI) CONPASS 10 (Pharmacists), Assistant Superintendent Of Immigration II (ASI II) CONPASS 08. Others are Inspector Of Immigration (II) CONPASS 07 (Nursing), Assistant Inspector Of Immigration (All), General Duty, CONPASS 06. The rest include Immigration Assistant III (IA III) CONPASS 03 General Duty, Immigration Assistant III (IA III) CONPASS 03 Artisans (Motor Driver, Mechanic). NIS said pplicants must be Nigerians by birth; have National Identity Number (NIN); have requisite qualifications and certificates; be fit and present certificates of medical fitness from government-recognized hospitals. The applicants must be of good character and must not have been convicted of any criminal offence; they will be required to undergo drug test and the applicants must be between the ages of 18 and 30 years with the exception of Doctors and Pharmacists, who must not be more than 35 Years; Height must not be less than 1.65m for male and 1.60m for female. Applicants’ chest measurement must not be less than 0.87 for men; Computer literacy is an added advantage; Any certificate or qualification not declared and accepted during documentation will not be accepted after the recruitment. The recruitment exam mode shall be Computer Based Test (CBT) for shortlisted candidates and appropriate time and date shall be communicated by the NIS. 