Labour Party (LP) Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) spokesperson, Dr Yunusa Tanko, has advised Nigerians to ignore claims by the opposition that the party does not have polling agents in the northern states. In a statement, yesterday, Tanko insisted that LP  “is solidly on ground championing the ways and means to change the narrative with the 2023 elections.” He said: “Opposition’s gimmicks to weaken the determination of Nigerians to Vote Peter Obi and Datti Baba-Ahmed into power this year will not fly. “The attention of Labour Party Presidential Campaign Council (LPPCC) has been drawn to yet another deceitful information circulating on the social media to the effect that our party has not submitted agents for 90,000 polling units in North Central, North East and North West. “We see this as yet another propaganda from the opposition to bring our rising influence down and deceive the electorate in an election year. “We have volunteers all over the country that surpass even the number of agents required for each polling booth. So, the issue of not being able to supply agents for 90,000 units is a complete fallacy designed by enemies of progress in Nigeria. “INEC (Independent National Electoral Commission) gave a window of up to January 20 for political parties to submit their list of agents for the elections and as such, cannot, at this time, raise concerns about any political party not being able to submit enough agents. “The Labour Party has a task force on recruitment and selection of agents headed by our presidential candidate, H.E. Peter Obi himself and his vice, Datti, the National Chairman and National Secretary of the party are all members of that committee. “LPPCC is investigating the source of this propagand,a because we know it is not definitely from the INEC. “We appeal to the Obidient family and the teeming supporters of our party to disregard the deceitful information and focus on the collection of their PVCs (Permanent Voter Cards), which are our collective weapons to dislodge the enemies of our dear country.” 