• Stakeholders Endorse Uzodimma For Second Term
Due to its transparency in governance, the World Bank, under its State Fiscal Transparency Accountability and Sustainability (SFTAS), programme, has deposited $30m into the coffers of the Imo State government. Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodimma, disclosed this, on Thursday, during the seventh edition of the Imo Stakeholders’ Forum (2023) held at the Rear Admiral Ndubusi Kanu Square, Owerri. He said: “This transparency system in my administration has earned Imo State the 2021 and 2022 World Bank Support under its State Fiscal Transparency Accountability and Sustainability (SFTAS), programme, which has deposited the sum of $30 million for the state. “This is just one out of many that we stand to gain from accountability and transparent system of governance which i have instituted.” He urged the people to support his administration, saying: “I, therefore, appeal to our people to rise and support my administration to reposition Imo State. I am committed, with my team,to restore the dignity of ndi Imo.” In the same vein, the scores of stakeholders have endorsed Uzodimma for a second tenure, in the election scheduled to hold in November. The motion was moved by Henry Njoku, and seconded by a former state lawmaker, Ifeanyi Agwu. In the event chaired by the Paschal Dozie, and attended by the Chairman, Elders Council of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu; the pioneer chairman, Seplat Energy Plc., Dr. A. B. C. Orjiakor; the Speaker, Imo House of Assembly, Emeka Nduka, state and federal governments’ officials, monarchs and people from all walks of life, academics, religious leaders, social groups, among others, the governor lamented the devastating effects insecurity has caused the state, accusing his political opponents of instigating the malady. Uzodimma promised to impact more on the lives of the people, especially in the area of agriculture, food security, infrastructure, rubber estate development, among others.. He disclosed: “More than 140 hectares of palm seedlings we planted at Ohaji and Ngor-Okpala are blossoming. We are still expecting actions from the Federal Government on silting of dams at Okigwe and Inyishi for dry season farming. The government has attracted a World Bank Assisted Project in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and Livelihood Residence Support Project (L-PRES) to support agro-industrial development and enhance food security. The Acharaubo Livestock Farm was rehabilitated and Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) entered with the National Agricultural Land Development Authority (NALDA). I have also given approval for the participation of the state in Special Agro-Industrial Zone (SAPZ) Project of the African Development Bank and International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD).” According to him, “A modern abattoir is currently nearing completion at Naze, Owerri North Local Council. “The Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources is also working with the relevant federal agencies on the procurement and distribution of improved seedlings to our farmers to enhance productivity. “Efforts will also be made to improve the availability and affordability of fertilizers by our farmers. “With the standard road network currently in place across the state, our farmers should be able to move their harvests to the market place and thus reap the real fruits of their labour.” 