 Elenu will be in Atlanta for the latest instalment of Gyration and Chill with Elenu and Friends. The city of Atlanta, in the US state of Georgia, will experience the best of comedy and music with the 2023 edition of Gyration and Chill with Elenu and Friends on April 7. The star-studded comedy concert, which has spanned two years, is put together by long time Nigerian stand-up comedian, Akinlami Babatunde Julius widely known as Elenu. Speaking to journalists via Zoom, the talented comedian who also doubles as entertainment consultant, while hinting on what the event is about, said it promises to be an evening of music, comedy and the best of fun. He also went on to reveal some of the line-up of comedy stars expected at the show and its acceptability so far. “Gyration and Chill with Elenu and Friends kicked off in 2021, which was the year after COVID-19. Prior to that, I organised Elenu live in Atlanta in 2018 and 2019 respectively. On July 2, 2021, my company, De Premium Entertainment LLC, an Atlanta based and American registered company started. We are an entertainment and logistics company. Then on February 11, 2022, we produced the 2nd edition, still in Atlanta, and it featured my mentor and boss, Ayo Makun,” he said. According to him, the third edition has been scheduled to hold on Good Friday April 7, 2023 and will feature Acapella, Ajebo, both from Nigeria and Helen Paul, who is based here in Atlanta. Others, he pointed out, are McPc from Houston and Mc Morris from Toronto. “It’s going to be a chill evening of cool music, comedy and merry making; with these line-ups, all set and confirmed, you can be sure to have an even better show than next year,” he assured. Speaking further on the services his company, De Premium Entertainment LLC offers, other things he does and the challenging of organising events in Atlanta, the talented event host and producer, said: “While it may not be easy, as an event producer, it is my job to give brands the reason to invest or sponsor you outrightly. “There are small Nigerian businesses who will support in their own very appreciated ways, but there are some that never add up to the crowd most times. So, passion keeps us going hard and learning from mistakes. “Aside from comedy, I run an entertainment management and logistics company; we also have a small portfolio of Short term rental apartments in the luxury city of Buckhead in Atlanta. “Some of the services we offer include, logistics, flights and hotel bookings in city centre; luxury chauffeur services with 2022 Cadillac Escalade and luxurious Mercedes Benz Splinter Buses for Maximum comfort.” In addition, he explained that his firm also produces live concerts, recalling that it handled the biggest comedy show out of Nigeria, which is AY live, both American and Canada, among others. 