Download logo The Ministry of Health has announced plans to transform the Mwai Kibaki Teaching and Referral Hospital to a fully-fledged level 6 facility. Speaking in Nyeri County during a familiarization tour of the facility, Health Cabinet Secretary Susan Nakhumicha promised to set up a multi-agency team that will help in the transitioning of the hospital.  “This hospital is in the right path to becoming a level six facility. However, there is need to have Dialysis, MRI and CT scan services as well as improve the health workforce for it to reach the standard of a level six hospital.” Said the CS. Nakhumicha pointing out that the government is committed to ensuring delivery of quality and affordable health care services to all Kenyans. She said there was need to consider Mwai Kibaki Hospital as a referral facility and not the first point of treatment except during emergencies whilst urging the management of the hospital to fast track the digitization and automation of services offered for easier access. “The government wants to serve you and this service starts at the community level. I want to urge residents of Nyeri County to first seek treatment at the dispensaries and Level 3 and 4 hospitals available, and it is only then that one be referred to this facility.” Noted the CS Retaliating the CS sentiments, Health Principal Secretary, State department for health standards and professional management, Dr. Josephine Mburu urged area residents to compliment the lower level facilities first before visiting the level 6 facility adding that they will soon be able to use NHIF cards to access services at the hospital. Speaking at the same function, Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga pledged to work closely with the Ministry of Health as his administration reviews the status of health in the county and what need to be done to ensure seamless delivery of healthcare services in the region. The Mwai Kibaki Teaching and Referral Hospital is mandated to receive patients on referral for specialized healthcare, facilitate training for health and allied professions and conduct research to inform planning, innovation and policy. The facility is projected to become a centre of excellence in Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) management especially in Diabetes, Cancer, Renal and Cardiovascular diseases, which bear the greatest disease burden in the region. The facility is instrumental in supporting management of COVID-19 in Nyeri and surrounding counties of Embu, Nyandarua, Laikipia, Tharaka Nithi, Meru, Isiolo, Samburu, Kirinyaga, Murang, and Marsabit. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Ministry of Health, Kenya.