Many residents and business owners in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT ), have decried the epileptic power supply being presently experienced in the territory for sometime now. The electricity consumers, who spoke to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja on Sunday, decried the poor power supply to their homes and business premises. According to them, power supply has declined recently compared to how it has been in the past few months. Mrs Omolara Amosun, a hair stylist resident in Kuje said that the situation was bad as she had to rely on generator to operate her business. “We don’t get electricity for  a whole day. I have to depend on generator and to even get fuel to power it is difficult as most fuelling stations don’t sell in gallons. “It has not been easy as I am losing my customers everyday and this is not good for my business. “I want to appeal to the AEDC to do something about the poor power situation speedily,’’ she said. Mr Linus Okoro, a welder at Lugbe, said that the situation was terrible as they don’t get power for a whole day. ”The power supply has been epileptic these few weeks unlike before when we used to have constant supply. “My appeal to AEDC and  the government is to ensure improved electricity to enable us earn a living as we depend on power to run our businesses, ” he said. Also speaking, Mrs Agnes Okiemute, a fashion designer residing at Peace Village, Lugbe said that electricity was not too regular in her area. According to her, they only have light for four to five hours a day and sometimes they don’t get for a whole day. “I am appealing to AEDC to improve power supply to the area to enable me run my business effectively.’’she said. Mrs Cynthia Aregbesola, a teacher residing at Bwari, Abuja said that electricity was not constant in her area. Aregbesola said that it was as if AEDC was playing with the light, they take it, bring it more than 10 times a day. ‘I don’t even understand what is happening, my appeal is that they should improve on electricity.” NAN recalls that AEDC had in a statement issued on Wednesday  attributed the drop in power supply in its franchise areas to insufficient load allocation. The company said that the insufficient load allocation had compelled the company to load shed power temporarily across different areas. The company apologised for the inconvenience caused, and appealed to its customers for understanding, while it collaborates with stakeholders to ensure  power supply was  improved and stablised soonest. 