The digital transformation of business in recent years has altered consumer habits. According to a recent SuperOffice survey, more than 80% of people are willing to pay more for a satisfactory customer experience. According to Souvik Bhattacharya, product manager in Meta, “Customers want to feel like their experience is uniquely catered to them. They don’t want to jump through hoops to get what they want.” Souvik’s work applies ground-breaking release engineering and machine learning (ML) infrastructure solutions to develop novel user experience models. Businesses must adopt product management principles to provide digital experiences that users love. Delivering a modern digital experience Today’s digital experience encompasses streaming media, online shopping, social media, virtual entertainment, gaming, online banking, mobile apps, and more. Consumers seek easy-to-access, fast, and personalized digital experiences. They want consistency across different interfaces, whether they are using digital platforms for personal or work-related reasons. “They expect user-friendly interfaces, optimized content, secured platforms, and meaningful engagement,” Souvik expounds. The term ‘customer’ is also not limited to public consumers. It includes internal customers in businesses, such as in-house developers who rely on sophisticated technological products that make their work easier. How product managers help craft digital experiences Optimizing the digital experience is a key responsibility of product managers. They champion the customer-centric approach throughout the product development process. Souvik further elaborates, “Product management helps large companies to create their products in a way that meets customer needs while supporting their organization’s goals. It requires thinking creatively and strategically about meeting customer needs in a truly innovative and differentiated manner.” As a product manager at Meta, Souvik plays a cross-functional role, working with various teams to deliver market-ready products. He has worked on Meta products like Facebook and applied AI, ML, virtual reality (VR), and other leading technological advancements to date. Maintaining digital experiences that customers love Creating modern-day digital experiences requires data insights and proper IT infrastructures. It requires a deep understanding of customer needs and market trends, which product managers are equipped to provide. “It also requires a willingness to experiment and learn from failures and to iterate based on real-world feedback,” Souvik adds. By tracking a product’s post-launch performance and using the collected data to inform future updates, product managers can continually improve products throughout their lifetime, ensuring that users remain happy. Souvik Bhattacharya is a Staff Product Manager at Meta, leading the company’s core health initiatives and release engineering. He has over a decade of product management leadership experience and has previously held senior product management roles at Amazon Web Services, where he built products and features for Amazon S3, the largest cloud storage for the public cloud, and at Apple and Siemens. Additionally, he has experience working with early-stage technology startups. Souvik holds an MBA from the University of Michigan, Ross School of Business. 