The Yoruba leader, Prof. Banji Akintoye, has vowed to continue with the Yoruba Nation agitation, promising not to abandon the cause. According to a statement signed by General Secretary (Interim), Ilana Omo Oodua Worldwide, Kunle Adelakun Eruobodo, Akintoye gave the promise when the Ilana Constitution Review Committee members, the Ilana State Coordinators and the Ilana Worldwide Interim Executive Council met with him in exile at his Cotonou’s residence. The statement stated: “This meeting was not a secret or private meeting but a meeting to present a newly-approved constitution by the Ilana congress, which was held on Friday, December 30, 2022 via zoom. “The Ilana Concerned members, the Diaspora Chapter Coordinators led by Funmi Soyemi, the Homeland State chapter’s Coordinators led by Chief Taofeek Olawale, the Ilana Interim Exco headed by its Chairman, Tanimowo Okusaga; the General Secretary, Eruobodo and other stakeholders presented the new constitution to Akintoye. Also, a letter of rejection of Dr. Wale Adeniran as Ilana leader or chairman was presented to the Alana. “We categorically and unequivocally rejected the ascension of Dr. Adeniran owing to the undemocratic process to lead Ilana Omo Oodua at this point in time when we need Akintoye’s leadership more than ever before.” “The appeal made by the Ilana delegates made Prof. Akintoye to make a U–Turn and rescind his earlier statement of resignation. The decision was applauded by the delegates and general members of the Ilana Omo Oodua Worldwide. “Akintoye acknowledged the sincerity of purpose, commitment, love and dedication of the delegates, most especially the Diaspora and Homeland chapters’ Coordinators, and also commended the Ilana Interim Exco, the State Coordinators and the Ilana Constitution Committee. “He, therefore, promised to stand by the truth and nothing but the truth. He also acknowledged the facts that there are issues and divisions within the ranks and files of Ilana’s leadership but promised to do his best to combat the destructive and unprogressive tendencies within the organisation.” “The Alana, Prof. Banji Akintoye, later signed the new Ilana constitution as a new guiding principle of Ilana Omo Oodua. “We are using this medium to inform the public that Ilana Omo Oodua led by Prof. Banji Akintoye will never abandon the Yoruba nation self-determination struggle or compromise his conviction on the journey he started and laboured very hard to sustain. “We implore the Nigerian media to be wary of few elements who are parading themselves as the official representatives or spokesmen for the Ilana. Ilana Omo Oodua would not be liable for any act illegally committed by impostors,” the statement further stated. 