The National Agricultural Land Development Authority (NALDA) has disclosed plans to provide Earth Dam, land clearing and farm inputs to farmers in Azare Local Government Area of Bauchi State to boost food security in the country. The Earth Dam when completed in 14 days time will provide water for over 10,000 Animals and Irrigation in over three villages in the area as Solar powered pumping machines would also be provided to pump water to farms around the communities. The Executive Secretary, NALDA  Paul Ikonne, while interacting with farmers in the community,  stated that the project was aimed at ensuring the availability of water for Irrigation and Animal Husbandry in order to curb farmers/herders clashes in the country. The representative of the District Head of Gamawa Mohammed Babayo, who spoke on behalf of the farmers while appreciating the government for the Dam called on NALDA to further support farmers in the area with inputs such as improved seeds, fertilisers, pesticides, herbicides and access roads. Mohammed who spoke in Hausa said they’re willing to provide more lands for clearing and are ready for more partnerships with NALDA. The Districts’s head who could not hide his excitement said this is the first time the villages would be feeling Federal presence as all agriculture activities in the area are collective efforts of the farmers. Responding to this, the NALDA boss commended the enthusiasm of the farmers, he assured them that NALDA will make inputs available to them alongside other needed support. “We will go into good partnership with you if you provide the land, with this one we’ll provide Solar powered pumping machines so that the water can go out to the farms, we have done something like this in Dabiram Dam, we will be happy to replicate this in another location so that we will have a lot of farmers do dry season Farming and all the support that the farmers need President  Muhammadu Buhari has mandated NALDA to provide it but for the community that’s ready and I can see that this community is ready” he stated. Explaining the importance of the Dam to the farmers, Ikonne said: “The water you see in the Dam now is  not rainwater so what it means is that when rain falls you will have enough water for all year-round farming in partnership with NALDA, that is why we here, I’m happy that your community is now ready”.”
 With the 500 hectares donated by the communities, Ikonne said NALDA will provide additional Earth Dam and pumping machines to further boost Irrigation Farming in the second location. He added that President Muhammadu Buhari who is a farmer himself understands the needs of farmers which is why he equipped NALDA in other to impact farmers by providing equipment for land clearing, land preparation, planting, harvesting and making inputs available to the farmers. The agency is also providing cow and goat pens in the Azare community the pens will be fully equipped with Solar powered boreholes, Veterinary services, access roads and Nafia grass fields for the production of feeds for the animals. The establishment of the Cow and Goat Pens would reduce Cattle movements in the area thereby curbing farmers/herders clashes.