There will be divine judgment against the wicked and corrupt leaders, as God will break His silence to deal with evil and wickedness this year. Also, 2023 will be a very terrible year of judgment for those who wickedly take innocent blood. It is a year where serious prayers are needed for the mercy of God will push back the judgement stretched out against theworld by the heavens. These are part of the prophetic picture for year 2023 according to the General Overseer of Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries, Dr. Daniel Kolawole Olukoya, at the Crossover service held at the International headquarters of the church transmitted via satellite. Olukoya said the Lord will dismantle mighty men who stand in the way of God this year. He called on believers to pray and break embargoes and dismantle evil monopolies, as well as pray against the spirit of lack and famine. His words:” This year, God will humble the proud who think they have it all. The Lord will fight like a Mighty Terrible One to deliver his children. This year is a year to wage a very serious war against the spirit of procrastination. It is a year of strange war against your attention; avoid distractions. There will be a mental, emotional, health, spiritual, and physical war. The enemy will try to attack in every manner. This is a year when the flesh must be mortified if you want to avoid trouble. Serious prayers against violent revolutions and overthrows are required.” Olukoya however revealed that 2023 will be a year of recovery and turnaround restoration to so many people, as well as completion of destiny projects. He stressed that sincerity and authenticity before God, consistent prayers, praise revival, ability to forgive, teachable and heart of giving are part of strategies needed to survive 2023. His words: “Guard your heart with all diligence. Believers need the cover of the blood of Jesus in this particular year. Pray for the grace to die to the flesh daily. Pray that God ransoms you from the power of the grave and of death.”
technology sector, the Prosper Africa Tech for Trade Alliance will accelerate e-commerce and digital trade in Africa and address legal, regulatory, and logistical bottlenecks. It also announced new partnerships to mobilise an investment target of $1 billion in private capital to advance African infrastructure and innovation, including: •A $25 million partnership with TradeMark East Africa and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) to establish Trade Catalyst Africa, an investment facility that is expected to leverage at least $90 million of private financing for African infrastructure with the potential to expand continent-wide.
•New partnerships with the Institutional Investor Network and global advisory firm MiDA Advisors that will channel large-scale investments into African infrastructure and build enduring relationships between the trillion dollar U.S. pension community and their African counterparts.
•Investments in five pioneering partnerships to grow the African asset management space and drive investment of over $200 million in African small businesses. The combination of these five partnerships, with a focus on addressing global challenges like climate change, food security, and women’s empowerment, will benefit hundreds of thousands of people and generate millions of dollars in revenue for businesses. Since 2019, the U.S. Government has helped close 1,100 deals across 49 African countries for a total estimated value of $65 billion. 