The Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, has commenced the distribution of cheques to cover insurance benefits of officers who lost their lives while in service, as well as those who suffered various forms of life-threatening injuries while on active duty. The total sum of cheques presented to about 70,000 families of deceased officers and those injured or rendered disabled in the line of duty between 2012 and 2020 amounts to over thirteen billion naira. These backlog payments were made possible through the IGP’s drive to ensure that police officers are adequately catered for in the event of injury or permanent disability due to the risks associated with policing, and that families of deceased police officers are adequately catered for in the absence of their breadwinners. The IGP while reiterating the value of human life , emphasised that prompt payment of insurance and other benefits due to officers who have met with some misfortune due to the risky nature of policing in contemporary environment and unforeseen hazards of policing, would greatly boost their morale and ensure they put in their best in service to the nation. The IGP further promised better welfare packages for family members of the police, either serving, retired, or slain in the line of duty, so as to cement the already existing esprit de corps amongst the police family. One of the beneficiaries, Inspector Rabiu Sani said armed robbers who ambushed their patrol team in December 2019 attacked him. According to him: “I am serving at Gwagwalada division under FCT Police Command. On December 5, 2019, we were ambushed by armed robbers. The robbers shot at me, so my hand was condemned. They have to amputate it. I am happy that my effort has been rewarded by the police and we are grateful to the IGP. Even as an amputee, I am still serving the police diligently. I am motivated to serve my country more and I am ready to face any armed robber even with my condition.” Another officer, an Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) said he was involved in an accident on his way to his duty post in Enugu. According to him: “I was driving back to my duty post in Enugu and my car summersaulted and I lost my hand. I am happy I am among those recognised by the police and if there be another life, I would still be a policeman. My amputated state has not hindered my job, I am still doing my job perfectly well.”