The Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) has declared that the 2023 general elections will hold in the South East, assuring that nobody can stop the process in the region. It stated that the political space in the region must be filled, and called on people of the zone to fully participate in the process. The pro-Biafra group made the declaration after their National Executive Council meeting presided over by their leader, Uchenna Madu, in Enugu. The meeting, which was attended by all zonal, state, and council coordinators, including national directors, also said that they’re monitoring all candidates across board, and will name their preferred candidates in due time. National Director of Information, MASSOB, Samuel Edeson, told reporters that the group reaffirmed its primary goal of actualising Biafra through principles of non-violence and international diplomacy, in collaboration with other pro Biafra groups. He said: “MASSOB, having realised that Biafrans cannot forcefully impose our desired interest on the people of Nigeria, and having understood the principles of non-violence, unanimously agreed and resolved that the Nigerian State will independently and internally observe and conduct its political exercises, including general elections in Igbo land. “MASSOB, in the wisdom of internationally recognised freedom of political participation and exercises, declared that this year’s general elections would not be stopped or boycotted in Biafra land. The people of South East are free to participate in the electoral processes, because our political space must be filled.” “MASSOB has agreed to allow the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct elections in the region for our people that still believe in the Nigerian state.” The pro-Biafra group advised that other pro-Biafra groups that planned to boycott the elections are entitled to stay at home during the process.  Edeson added that having realised the importance of political and economic powers, and its usefulness for self-determination and restoration of Biafra, the group declared that Ndigbo would massively participate in the 2023 elections to elect credible, selfless and progressive persons to represent South East political interest.