The Kano State Police Command, yesterday, apprehended a 62-year-old man, Bamuwa Umaru for offering N1million to secure a suspected kidnapper. A statement by police spokesperson, SP Abdullahi Haruna Kiyawa confirmed the arrest. Umaru, a resident of Shika town, in Sabon Gari local council of Kaduna State approached the Anti-Kidnapping Squad of State Criminal Investigation Department, Kano state command to regain the freedom of one Yusuf Ibrahim. Ibrahim, a 27-year-old resident of Danjibga Village, Tsafe local council, Zamfara State, was arrested by a team of Operation Restore Peace led by CSP Usman Abdullahi, last year. The suspected kidnapper was picked up by the detectives at Rijiyar Zaki motor park, Kano, after he was identified by one of the victims of the criminal act, who was earlier kidnapped along Funtuwa-Gusau Road, and disposed of the sum of N500, 000.00 as ransom before his release. “On December 16, 2022 at about 1400hrs, one Alhaji Bamuwa Umaru, ‘m’, 62-year-old, of Shika town, Sabon Gari local council of Kaduna State approached the Officer in Charge of Anti-Kidnapping Squad, State Criminal Investigation Department, Kano State Command, SP Aliyu Mohammed and offered him the sum of N1 million as bribe to secure the release of one Yusuf Ibrahim”. According to Kiyawa, the suspected kidnapper has confessed to the crime and further confessed to having participated in a series of kidnappings at Sheme, Yankara, faskari and Kucheri Villages in Katsina and Zamfara States respectively. He added that the kidnapper further confessed that their syndicate members had killed about 10 of their victims, and he alone killed Two of them. Kiyawa revealed that the two suspects will be charged to court when investigation is completed. The statement emphasised that Commissioner of Police, Kano State Command, CP Mamman Dauda, appreciated the good people of Kano State, other security sgencies, the media, vigilante groups and the command’s community policing as well as stakeholders for their prayers and support. 