Rivers State Police Command said its operatives have arrested three suspected kidnappers in Obelle community in Emohua Council of the state. Oluwasegun Ibrahim, Vicent Sunday, and Worlu Ekene were reported to have kidnapped a Bolt driver in Mile 4 in Obio-Akpor council of the stats. The Youth President of Obelle Community, Richard Uchechukwu, and the chief security officer, Charles Martins explained how members of the community intercepted the kidnappers who were driving with their victim. The Youth President said they trailed the kidnappers to an uncompleted building in Umuchukwuta village in the Obelle community where they kept their victim whom they abducted from Mile 4 in Obio-Akpor council. According to Uchechukwu; “They kidnapped the victim all the way from Agip junction and brought the person to dump in Obelle just to tarnish the name of the community but against them, the law caught them.” According to Superintendent of Police(SP) Grace Iringe-Koko in a statement issued to Newsmen yesterday, said operatives from Rumuji Police Division
rescued one Martin Nze ‘M,’ 37yrs of Awka, Anambra State,m, and his car, a Toyota Corolla with the registration number GG 138 FY, was recovered and taken to the station. She confirmed that three of the abductors identified as Vincent Sunday ‘M’, aged 25yrs from Rumuji, Ekene Micheal ‘M’, aged 29yrs from Eliozu, and Mohammed Oluwasegun ‘M’, aged 20yrs from Ondo State were arrested. She said One Single Barrel Dane Gun was recovered from them adding that they will be charged in court once the investigations are completed. Similarly, operatives of the Anti-Cultism Unit (ACU) arrested three Cult Members In On Monday following a tip-off at Gure Community, Khana LGA of Rivers State. The police arrested one Kensuanu Loveday Dick ‘M’ a.k.a ‘Aaro’, the Executioner of the Iceland Cult Group, Myimaka Olu ‘M’, and one Junior Mbo ‘M’ of Bean Community who has been terrorizing the area. During the search on Junior Mbo, one locally made pistol was discovered. According to Iringe-Koko said the suspects will be charged in court once the investigations are completed. 