Says values of hardwork, honesty, integrity, determine fate of nations Nigeria can produce the highest quality individuals to run the most efficient governments and private institutions if we teach the right values not only in our institutions of learning, but also imbibe a national ethic of hardwork, honesty, integrity, trustworthiness, among others. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo stated this, yesterday, in Abeokuta, Ogun State, while delivering the centenary lecture of Baptist Boys’ High School (BBHS). Osinbajo, who spoke on the topic “Values: The difference between success and failure,” said that an ethical revolution was necessary to fast-track the country’s development towards becoming a great nation indeed. According to him, there is need for a national consensus, especially among the political, religious and business elite, in accepting and implementing minimum ethical standards. He noted: “It is what is taught and learned that shapes the character of individuals and nations. But it is not just teaching, governments must lead this ethical revolution by rewarding ethical behaviour and ensuring speedy punishment for misconduct. “The religious elite must reinforce the ethical direction by showing that wealth and influence are built by hardwork, diligence and the deferment of gratification and not just by miracles. The religious elite must also reject and ostracise public officers and persons whose wealth cannot be explained or is clearly from shady or suspicious sources.” Osinbajo also highlighted the ‘incredible legacy’ of BBHS in producing alumni that have gone on to attain national and international renown in academia, professions, business, politics and civil society. He narrated stories of four of such alumni, who include the first Premier of the then Western Region, the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo (GCFR, SAN); former President Olusegun Obasanjo; the late Chief MKO Abiola, the winner of June 12, 1993 presidential election, as well as one-time Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Bola Ajibola (SAN). He said that the successes of these four BBHS old boys that attained significance and greatness were not based on talent or opportunity. “They all worked hard, but they showed courage and integrity. They fought for what they believed in and three of the four cases were unjustly jailed for their beliefs or for reasons of their views or positions being considered threats to the authorities of the day,” the VP stated .