• Together, We Can Build A New Nigeria, He Tells Supporters In Jos
Irked by the nation’s economic misfortune, the Labour  Party (LP) Presidential Candidate, Peter Obi, has  pledged that his administration would end wastages, and recoup loss monies, if elected president on February 25. Obi also promised to provide security and protect Nigerians’ lives and property. He spoke, yesterday, during his presidential campaign at Kafanchan, Southern Kaduna, where he commiserated with the people over the killings and incessant attacks by terrorists. The former Anambra State governor and his running mate, Senator Datti Baba-Ahmed, also vowed that they would genuinely fight corruption and bring all corrupt persons to book. The presidential hopeful was accompanied by the former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) Babachir Lawal; the former Finance Minister, Senator Nenadi Usman; human rights activist, Aisha Yusufu; LP’s National Chairman, Julius Abure and National Secretary, Alhaji Umar Farouk Ibrahim. Others were Kaduna State LP governorship candidate, Jonathan Awake and his running mate; Southern Kaduna Senatorial Candidate, Michael Ayuba Auta, among others. While at the palace of the Oegwan oegworok, Chief of Kagoro, Dr. Ufuwai Bonet, Obi commiserated with the people over the killings and prayed God to bring an end to attacks. Meanwhile, Obi, was in Jos, the Plateau State capital, in continuation of his nationwide campaign rally and Town Hall meetings. While addressing his supporters at the Rwang Pam Township Stadium, Obi, who was accompanied by his running mate, Yusuf Datti, said the fact that Nigeria was passing through turmoil prompted him to run for the Presidency. He noted with total dismay how Nigeria suddenly became the poverty capital of the world. Obi, however, expressed optimism that the next month’s general elections would be a watershed in the history of Nigeria, as the people are set to take their country back, saying: “Together, a new Nigeria is possible.” “A vote for Obi/Datti will restore the lost hope. Both of us are educated. Nigeria should look at the pedigrees and backgrounds of all the candidates and choose the right ones. We are the most qualified of all the candidates.” He added that 2023 was not the turn of anyone, but the turn of all Nigerians to vote for credible leadership, stressing that this year would be the turn of Nigerians to take their destiny into their hands. He assured that he would bring to a permanent end all forms of insecurity, not only in southern Kaduna, but also in Nigeria. In his response, Chief of Kagoro, who spoke on behalf of all the prominent chiefs in Southern Kaduna, assured that as traditional rulers, they would pray for God to give Nigerians the best, stressing that they as traditional rulers, they had no political party, but would vote according to their conscience for a credible candidate. In a similar visit to the Throneroom Trust Ministry, where he met with religious leaders shortly after commissioning the Mike Auta Senatorial campaign office and zonal offices, he further solicited prayers for God to heal Nigeria. Also, the Chief Imam of Jema’a, Alhaji Muhammed Kasim, said Muslims  and Christians were united in Southern Kaduna and were committed to ensure that no intruder was allowed to break the bond.