Muslims leaders in Lagos State, have reaffirmed their support for the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and other candidates of the ruling party. Their position was made public after a strategic meeting held with the Islamic leaders, yesterday, by the Directorate of Religious Affairs of the party’s Presidential Campaign Council, headed by Chief Oyinlomo Danmole.  The meeting held on the premises of Lagos Television (LTV 8), came barely two weeks after a similar activity with Christian leaders in the state. The religious leaders comprised Chief Imams from the 20 local councils and 37 Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs) across the state, and heads of religious organisations among others. The National Missioner of Ansar-Ud-Deen Society of Nigeria, Imam AbdulRahman Ahmed, said they were particular about progressive and qualitative governance, which happens to be what a Tinubu presidency promises.     His words: “We want reassurance; once we get assurance of quality governance and representation, we will offer our votes, our support. This is simple. It is not a matter of emotive support, it is not a matter of whether we are going to vote or we do not know what we want.” In his reaction to their demands, the state party chairman, Pastor Cornelius Ojelabi reassured that Tinubu’s Renewed Hope Mantra is what the nation needs, and that is a social contract that will be honoured. “They’ve come forward with their demands and these are basic things that will enhance their religious activities. By the time they present it, we will look at those that we can implement as a government.”
 
Commenting on the engagement, Ojelabi said: “It is a welcome development. It’s a way of encouraging them, sensitising them to key into the role that is expected of them as a leader. Encouraging their followers to go out there and be participating and to also go all out to participate in the general election.”
 
On his part, Danmole expressed satisfaction with the outcome of the strategic meeting, noting that it is one of the strategies that the directorate is employing to help the party in delivering its five-million-vote-target for Tinubu so as to guarantee a resounding victory for Sanwo-Olu and his running mate, Dr. Kadiri Obafemi Hamzat and other candidates of the party. 