Nigerdock has announced its plans to reposition for economic growth, while providing maritime and logistics infrastructure, as well as strengthening global trade with West Africa. The Chief Executive Officer, Nigerdock, Maher Jarmakani, disclosed this while unveiling the company’s new vision, mission statement and values, just as it was recognised as a great place to work in Nigeria. According to Jarmakani, the company has a legacy of promoting Nigeria’s industrialisation goals, adding that it has incorporated a growth strategy to build one of the largest self-sustaining trading hubs to facilitate the expansion of mid-to-large-sized businesses across the continent. He assured that the company would deliver seamless supply chain and free zone solutions that bring value to customers, while being responsible for people and the environment. “As businesses adjust to the global economic climate, our internal and external stakeholders remain critical to our success, commitment to excellence, and sustainable operations. “Nigerdock’s values have also been redefined as Integrity, Diversity, Excellence, Accountability, Leadership, and Synergy. The values reflect the company’s track record of best practices, sector prominence, performance, innovation, and environmental consciousness,” Jarmakani added. Commenting on the company’s Great Place To Work certification, Jarmakani, expressed the company’s delight to be recognised for its positive culture and employee experience. He said a key component of the company’s business strategy is to create an enabling environment, empower people and ensure operational excellence translates to laudable business outcomes. On his part, the Chief Human Resources Officer, Nigerdock, Daniel Ayscough, said with over 35 years of operations, the company has consistently created employment opportunities and built a formidable team centred on expertise, diversity and cohesiveness. “The Great Place to Work certification comes at a juncture where we have redefined our vision, mission, and values to align with our growth strategy. We continuously put our people at the heart of everything we do by enhancing employee purpose and development,” he said. 