A coalition of civil society organisations under the aegis of Alliance for Democratic Sustenance (ADS) has raised the alarm over a subterranean plot to truncate the conduct of the general elections. Led by Malam Yusuf Bulama,, the group urged President Muhammadu Buhari to wade into the issue by calling on state apparatus to live up to their constitutional responsibility to ensure the smooth conduct of the general elections next month. Alleging that those who lost out in the party primaries were behind the nefarious activities,, the group claimed that the arrowheads of the unfolding plot are bent on installing their stooge to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari. It noted: “It has become imperative to address you today over a very fearful disturbing revelation we have stumbled upon which is capable of threatening our evolution to another democratic government and capable of shaking the very foundation of Nigeria and the African continent. “We have impeccable information from highly placed and reliable sources of a clandestine meeting by some powerful and highly placed persons aimed at truncating the democratic transition to another democratically elected government in the country. “Our findings indicate that the meeting exhaustively deliberated on the transition and general elections. “It considered plans is to infiltrate INEC and get willing tools who will assist them carrying out their heinous plans. The plan, according to our sources indicates that certain top military personnel has been contacted by these elements in their quest to frustrate the transition. “The nocturnal meeting deliberated on every possible means to frustrate the elections and cause confusion in the polity that will create room for their plans to hijack the system. The plan is to make sure elections do not hold or are not successful and cause a constitutional crisis. “We call on the government of President Buhari to decisively investigate the secret meetings. The international community should be aware of enemies of the country working to destabilize the nation’s democracy.” 