The Vice Chancellor (VC) of Elizade University, Ilara-Mokin, Ondo State, Prof. Olukayode Amund, at the weekend, said the sudden surge in the number of students seeking admission into private universities was due to the incessant and prolonged strikes by members of Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU).
According to him, private universities will soon take over from public universities owing to stable academic calendar and robust facilities for education delivery. Amund stated this during the 11th matriculation ceremony of Elizade University, where a record number of 602 students were admitted into the institution. He said: “Parents are getting to know the university more and more, and I also believe that the closing of public universities assisted and diverted students to private universities.” “In the next few years, private universities are going to take over from public universities in terms of subscriptions because four years is four years and there is a guarantee of graduating on time.” While urging the new intakes to be of good behaviour, Amund stressed that the institution is always ready to sanction any students found to be involved in social vices within the school. “I listed out what they need to do: study hard, work smart, and ensure you go to lectures. When you are diligent, you are going to succeed; that is the only key to success. “They also must be of good behaviour because they are sanctions for bad behavior. It can be rustication or expulsion, especially when you are caught with drugs. “The University has continued to focus on its vision and mission to make meaningful impact in the tertiary educational sector as a front-runner through quality delivery and research output. “To buttress this trajectory of excellence, the Founder has graciously invested in robust physical infrastructure and laboratory facilities to replicate what is obtainable in universities in Europe and America, thereby providing an alternative to parents desiring quality training for their children and wards. “Our library facilities are excellent, and we have endeavoured to connect the entire campus with the Internet to facilitate unfettered access to the learner management system on which we have uploaded lecture materials.”