The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential Campaign Council (PCC), has said that former governor, Mr. Ayodele Fayose and his political associates are working for the victory of the party flag bearer, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar in the February 25 election. The PCC said that neither Fayose nor his supporters have come openly to say that they have rejected Atiku as the presidential candidate of the party, saying their rejection of membership of the campaign council was hinged on its composition. Former acting governor and Secretary of the PCC, Mr. Tunji Odeyemi, who stated this, yesterday, during an interactive session with newsmen in Ado Ekiti, said that some of the aggrieved party members were still working for the victory of the party’s candidate behind the scene. “I don’t see Fayose and his supporters not supporting Atiku, even though they are not participating in the campaign. By rejecting their appointment into the presidential campaign council is not enough to say that they have rejected Atiku. I know some of them that are working behind the scenes for Atiku. “I don’t believe in speculation, remember that Joju, the biological son of Fayose is a candidate for the House of Representatives for Ekiti Central Constituency 1 on the platform of the PDP. He would work for his son and he would want him to win the election. Fayose has not come out openly to say that he was not supporting Atiku Abubakar. If he has not said so, every other thing remains speculation, until he comes out to say so. “That he is not joining us in the campaign is not enough to conclude that he won’t support Atiku. If you watch the video of the flag-off campaign of Governor Seyi Makinde in Ibadan, even Governor Nyesom Wike who, is leading the G-5 governors, was still shouting the PDP slogan. If you want to count the number of governors on the platform of the PDP today, the G5 governors would still be counted.” On what the party is doing to bring the aggrieved PDP members on board, Odeyemi said that one of the committees from the PCC has been assigned to reach out to them. “You would soon see the result. The leadership would still reach out to them to let them know why they should support Atiku.” He boasted that the PDP would win the presidential election with about 80 per cent of the votes from the state, saying that Ekiti State is regarded as a one of the PDP states. “Be rest assured that the result of the coming presidential election will be a different ball game. I can also assure you that 90 per cent of those who went to Social Democratic Party (SDP) are back into the PDP. Don’t be surprised that when the result of the presidential election is announced, we won’t score less than 80 per cent regardless of the fact that APC has a sitting governor.”