•As Obaseki connects Edo councils to fibre optic Internet Management of BEDC. Photo: FACEBOOK/BEDC<br />  This is contained in a statement signed by the company’s Acting Head, Corporate Affairs Department, Mrs Evelyn Gbiwen, and made available to newsmen in Benin. She started by tendering apology to BEDC customers for inconveniences suffered, saying: “The management of BEDC wishes to empathise with its customers over shortage of power supply currently being experienced in its franchise states. “We are relentlessly engaging stakeholders in the electricity value chain to resolve the situation and improve power supply. “We deeply regret inconveniences caused by the situation and appeal for your patience and understanding as we resolve the problem.” It said one of the company’s goals is to ensure regular power supply to all its operations areas. Meanwhile, Edo State Government has concluded plans with its partners to extend fibre optic cables to 18 councils of the state as part of renewed efforts to expand the state’s digital space and reduce rural-urban migration. Special Adviser to the Governor on Media Projects, Crusoe Osagie, disclosed this at the weekend while addressing journalists in Benin City, noting that with the development, Edo will become the first state in the country to attain the feat. He said: “Edo State government has finalised arrangements with its partners to run fibre optic cables across all local government councils in the state by September, becoming the first state in the country to achieve the lofty feat.” The statement added that Governor Godwin Obaseki administration had, in the past six years, pursued reforms and projects to ensure the right physical and digital infrastructure to drive sustainable growth and development in the state, leveraging technology. “We are ensuring steady electricity across all our communities, making sure developmental projects in the urban centres are extended to the rural communities.
“We are confident that with electricity and fibre connectivity, people will not have to leave their villages to the urban centres for their businesses, which is why we are partnering with local governments to extend fibre network to all Edo communities.”