• Says no sane political leader ’ll play down workers’ welfare
• Gov tasks implementation committee for Alayande varsity on policies, processes
• Why youths deserve better representation than appointments, by Sarumi Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, yesterday, vowed to continue prioritising workers’ welfare, saying no sane political leader will play down the welfare of workers. Makinde stated this at his meeting with the Joint Action Committee (JAC) of trade unions across the six state-owned tertiary institutions. He stated that it is the function of a sound government to take workers’ welfare into a priority, with readiness to formally engage all partial members of staff into full capacity across the state-owned tertiary institutions. The governor gave the assurance of incorporating a member of JAC into the implementation committee of Emmanuel Alayande University of Education inaugurated earlier yesterday. Makinde, who had earlier inaugurated the committee at the Executive Chamber, Governor’s Office, Secretariat, Agodi, Ibadan, charged the implementation committee of the university to create policies and processes by which the institution would be run in a different shape, assuring that the existing structure in the institution would be maintained. The 12-man committee is headed by Pro-chancellor of Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Prof. Ayodeji Omole. IN another development, software technology consultant cum politician, Lanre Sarumi, yesterday, advocated more inclusion of young Nigerians in governance and better representation, saying this will contribute to the proposition of youth-centric laws and policies. Sarumi, who is seeking to represent the Ibadan North-Federal Constituency at the House of Representatives, stated this in Ibadan yesterday. The youth-focused politician said inclusion of young Nigerians in governance would develop the nation. He said that youths were more ready than before to take on the older generation. “Youths are ready to take on the mantle of leadership. I implore them not to make themselves available for the political class to use in fomenting trouble during elections,” he said.