RoversKlub, a digital travel company just launched The Nomad Project – a package that helps remote workers explore other countries while working. The Nomad project provides all the resources that Nigerians who work out of the office need to balance work and life as they explore places they’ve always wanted to visit. RoversKlub was founded by Chika Uluocha, an HR executive who has spearheaded different work-life balance measures in her years building a startup and managing workers in a leading tech company. This experience is what drives the mission of The Nomad Project. Freelancers and professionals who can do their job from anywhere with a laptop and an internet connection, know that a day in an inspiring environment can be more productive than weeks working from the same place. The ideal workplace is not always an office in one’s company or home. It’s a place that motivates them to work. And that could be a coffee shop, a beachfront, or an entirely new country today and another the coming week. The Nomad Project makes this lifestyle possible for workers. They can explore new places and cultures without any interruptions to their schedules. “We were inspired by the freedom and flexibility of remote work. Work from home should mean work from anywhere”, Chika said enthusiastically. “For The Nomad Project, it’s also about bringing a balance to professional and private life. Many workers feel like it has to be either work or vacation. Why can’t it be the two?” she added. “However, we understand that some people would not travel if it would affect their work. That’s why we started The Nomad Project. Now workers just need to pack up work and start their adventure while we take care of the mechanics.” The Nomad Project covers the total travel package which include return tickets, accommodation, visas, co-working spaces, medical documents, travel insurance, tours and experiences. It is also Ideal for those who have work opportunities in large, expensive countries and want to move closer to their job. Instead of moving with zero knowledge of the place, they can visit the destination and gauge the experience of living in the new country before committing to it. The company has partners in major countries in Africa, Europe, and Asia like: South Africa, Kenya, Thailand, Mauritius, Tanzania, Rwanda, Singapore, Maldives, Morocco, Mexico, Indonesia, Turkey, Namibia, The United Kingdom, Antigua and Barbuda, New Zealand, Peru and many more. The Nomad project is open to professionals who want to make the best out of remote work. They provide everything they need to stay connected to work no matter where the adventure takes them. Birthed by her love for travel and a dream for a completely digital platform that provides not just travel services, but a community of like-minds to network and discover the world together. Chika hopes that through travel she can not only inspire confidence in people but also improve the quality of their lives thus making them better for themselves and their communities. To subscribe to The Nomad package, clients can register their interest here or book a free consultation here. 