Major changes and milestones in the cycle of time usually elicit certain reactions in most, if not all of us. For some, these milestones are a cause for celebration as they mark an important rite of passage, ushering us from one phase of our lives to another. For others, it is a grim reminder of the inexorable march of time – that impersonal deity who waits for no man and forces us, not just to look back and ask us ourselves whether we have lived our best lives so far, but also to confront our mortality, whether we like it or not (especially if we have attained a certain age). For yet others, it is a time to discard certain actions or attitudes and take up new ones, to adopt certain positions one was perhaps previously opposed to, or to pursue a course of action with greater energy or more gusto than before. At the beginning of a new year such as this, new year resolutions are the order of the day, as people make a plethora of promises to themselves – be it to take their health more seriously (by losing weight, exercising more regularly, eating sensibly, forswearing alcohol, smoking and caffeine, etc.); to reassess a business or romantic relationship that is probably headed for a dead-end; to take on a potentially uplifting hobby or practice; to travel for leisure and educational purposes: to learn a new language or skill; to be a more intentional parent, spouse, partner and friend; to get closer to God, and so on. These are all very laudable objectives but why do we tie our resolutions to major cycles of time? Why new year resolutions? Why not new quarter, or new month, or new week, or even new day resolutions? Or for that matter, why not resolutions made on the spur of the moment – simply because you feel all of a sudden, that you’ve traveled this road, or encompassed that proverbial mountain, for far long enough? Or could it be that there is something in the very flow of time (especially during major cycles, like decades, centuries and millenia, and the beginnings and ends of eras) that somehow aids the actualisation of our resolutions? Is time, then, an enabler of the changes in direction or attitudes promised in our resolutions? Is that why Christians flock to their various churches on New Year’s Eve every year for their watch night and crossover services? Does God perhaps, answer the prayers or honour the commitments made on these occasions more readily than those made at other times of the year? A number of deep thinkers I know of will beg to differ. In the words of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., for example, “Such an attitude stems from a tragic misconception of time … Actually, time itself is neutral; it can be used either destructively or constructively … Human progress never rolls on the wheels of inevitability; it comes through the tireless efforts of men and women willing to be co-workers with God, and without this hard work, time itself becomes an ally of the forces of stagnation. We must use time creatively, in the knowledge that the time is ‘always ripe to do what is right.” What about the spiritual symbolisms we attach to these major cycles of time (ie the belief that God’s plans and purposes for His creation and for us as individuals, families and nations are somehow tied to our calendar)? The truth is that the calendar is a human rather than a divine construct. Like most things human therefore, it has undergone a series of changes over the centuries and millennia. The Western calendar that we are using today has seen profound changes in both the distant and more recent past (ie before and after the birth of Christ). Perhaps the most dramatic of these changes took place in Ancient Rome during the reign of Emperor Julius Caesar. Shortly before his assassination in 44 BC, Caesar decided to immortalise himself by inserting his name in the Roman calendar – his own little slice of Time, if you like. Rather than just having a piece of property (a monument, a street, a building or a natural landmark) named after him, as was the usual practice with illustrious personalities, Caesar wanted a month. So he ordered the creation of the month of Julius (July in English; Juilliet in French; Julio in Spanish; Julius in German) to follow the 6th month, the month of Juno (June). This new month became the seventh month of the year, displacing September (‘Sept’ is seven in Latin). After Caesar’s death, his nephew and heir, Octavius, became Emperor of Rome, and was later known as Caesar Augustus (Caesar the Great). In time, he too decided to follow in his uncle’s footsteps – and thus was the month of Augustus born. August became the eighth month, displacing October (‘Octo’ is eight in Latin). The Julian calendar, as it became known, effectively pushed the month of September to No 9; October to No. 10, November (‘Nova’, nine in Latin) to No. 11, and December (‘Deca’, ten in Latin) to No. 12. The Julian year thereby changed from a 10-month to a 12-month affair. Meaning that hood old Janus, the Roman god of past and future and his devotees had to wait two whole months to usher in his month of January and the beginning of a new year! What an irony. Man determining when the year actually starts! In the Christian era, the Gregorian calendar has since tweaked its Julian predecessor, as it made further changes to time. So our human calendars tend to vary from time to time according to the politics. 