Premium Pension Limited has set new goals,  promising better service delivery to its customers especially as it attained over N1 trillion in Assets under Management (AUM).
 
The firm, one of the first seven Pension Fund Administrators (PFA) to be licensed in December 2005, is the first PFA fully owned by Nigerians that has achieved the over N1 trillion AUM without any form of business combination.
 
The Head, Corporate Communications, Premium Pension Limited, Aliyu Muhammed Ali, in a statement, said that it has over 775,000 members and over N323b benefits payout to over 88,000 beneficiaries since inception. He added that its teaming members are serviced through the company’s offices in all states of the Federation as well as the Federal Capital territory (FCT) along with its multilingual call centres and online channels.
   
The company has well-trained staff that have remained part of the success story and committed to delivering premium experience, across all interaction platforms. “With its corporate mission to grow our members’ wealth and enable them embrace their golden years every action of the Board, Management and Staff are centred on customers.”
 
Commenting on the development, the Company’s Board Chairman, Mr. Ibrahim Alhassan Babayo said, “The attainment of N1trillion Assets under Management is a clear manifestation of hard work which translated into effective management of resources entrusted under the care of our company”.
 
Babayo, while appreciating the National Pension Commission for creating the right environment to safeguard pension assets, further said “Premium Pension is now in the league of Tier-1 PFAs.”
 
He appreciated his colleagues on the board for providing guidance towards attainment of this feat. He also hailed the management and staff for their discipline and professionalism that had continued to see the company grow from strength to strength. He charged them to remain as seasoned professionals in the pension industry.
 
While thanking God for the wisdom in creating sound strategies and capacity to remain focused in execution, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Umar Sanda Mairami expressed his appreciation to customers who entrusted their retirement savings to Premium Pension Limited.
 
He went further to say, “This great milestone of having over N1 trillion Assets under Management was achieved through customer patronage and dint of hard work by staff at all levels without any business combination but by adhering to the company’s vision of being the fastest growing top-tier PFA creating value.”