Says no better way to start new year than acknowledging God Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday, prayed for a smooth and peaceful transition, urging people to disregard evil predictions of anarchy and violence usually thrown out during election seasons by fake prophets and enemies of the country. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile, Sanwo-Olu also enjoined Lagosians to continue to keep faith with his administration, saying that his government has lived up to the excellent spirit associated with Lagos State in line with the THEMES developmental agenda. He said his administration during his first term in office had delivered many laudable and iconic projects in all the six-pillars of his administration’s development agenda. Besides, he disclosed that President Muhammadu Buhari would be in Lagos in two weeks’ time to commission some of the iconic projects by his administration, which include the first phase of the Blue Line Rail from Marina to Mile 2, Imota Rice Mill, first phase of the Lekki-Epe Expressway and the JK Randle Centre for Yoruba Culture and History, as well as flag-off of Phase II of the Blue Line Rail from Mile 2 to Okokomaiko. “As we offer our deep and heartfelt gratitude to God, at this thanksgiving, I wish to enjoin all Lagosians to continue to keep faith with the administration, and be rest assured that the Greater Lagos of our collective dream is within reach,” he assured. The governor spoke, yesterday at the 23rd yearly thanksgiving service tagged “Praising The Name of God,” organised by the First Family of Lagos State in conjunction with the Ministry of Home Affairs at the Tafawa Balewa Square, Lagos. The thanksgiving service coincided with the 56th birthday of the governor’s wife, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu. Sanwo-Olu said the service, which usually took place at the Lagos House, Ikeja, since its inception in 2000, was held at the TBS to give the opportunity for a greater number of people to participate in line with his administration’s policy of inclusion. He also praised his predecessors, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Babatunde Fashola and Akinwunmi Ambode, for their contributions to the growth and development of the state in the last 23 years. ALSO, the governor has pleaded with Nigerians and residents of the state to continue to offer prayers and support for the repose of the souls of Nigerian fallen heroes and their family members left behind. He made the plea, yesterday, while addressing Christian leaders, serving and retired military personnel and members of Nigerian Legion during an Interdenominational Service held at Chapel of Christ The Light, Alausa, to commemorate the 2023 Armed Forces Remembrance Day. The governor, who was represented by his Chief of Staff, Mr. Tayo Ayinde, also craved for support for the members of the Legion and relatives of deceased military personnel, saying that no compensation in kind or cash can erase the pains of the death of the deceased gallant military officers. He said that the yearly commemoration of the Armed Forces Remembrance Day was a testament of the unwavering support to the security personnel among other welfare support to the officers. 