The Catholic Archbishop Emeritus of Lagos, Anthony Cardinal Olubunmi Okogie spoke to OBIRE ONAKEMU on how insecurity has been threatening development of Nigeria and why here’s need for leaders who can see beyond regional, ethnic and religious sentiment. What is your opinion on the state of the nation? The blind and the deaf knows that the state of the nation is on the negative. With the high level of insecurity, inflation is on the high, there is also increase in unemployment rate and our politicians and leaders are more concerned with the forthcoming elections, rather than ways to salvage the country from impending doom. With the current situation of our country, we are in a state of anarchy.
                 
With rising insecurity, do you think elections can hold throughout the country? It is his constitutional duty as President to safeguard lives and property of all citizens of this country. As things stand at the moment, insecurity is posing a dangerous threat to the next election, but presently, there is no sign from the President and members of his cabinet in allaying the fears of the people they govern, that they have it under control. If they are sincere and serious about this election, they should see to security of the nation first. How do you see religion interfering in politics of 2023? The Nigerian Constitution is not against same faith ticket but there is sense in taking religious diversity into consideration in conducting matters of the state. ln sane political climes, candidates are adjudged based on their competency, transparency, track record, inclusiveness and other virtues but not on ethnic, religious or regional affiliation.
     
What is your idea of the President, Nigeria needs now?  
   
We need a competent President with the vision and goodwill to rescue the country, one who has the ability to use our diversity and gifts to our own advantage both locally and internationally, one who is not blinded by selfishness, religion or political affiliation but one driven by the general good of the nation. 
                              
Do you think religious leaders are doing enough to tell truth to power? There is a limit to what religious leaders can do. They are moral guides that tell people what is right or wrong but cannot control the consciences of the people. 
            
Between election and restructuring, which one will you pick first? We cannot talk about restructuring with feeble leaders in power. There is need for Nigerians to elect competent leaders, who can facilitate proper restructuring in the country.   
         
Are you satisfied with the democratic rule at the moment? In theory, yes we are we have democracy. But in reality we are doing the opposite. Democracy entails inclusiveness, justice, fairness and equity but all these are far-fetched today in our country. Where there is no love, there cannot be progress! It is glaring that in this country, ethnic and regional sentiments play crucial roles in our socio-economical and political terrain, sometimes, to the detriment of our national unity. We need people, who can see beyond these differences and realise that our diversity can be our greatest strength and harness this fact for the good of all.                                 
The church has come under heavy criticism for concentrating on materialism instead of preaching spiritual values? Let me begin by correcting your assertion, the church has not concentrated on materialism. Although it is unfortunate that some of the church leaders and prelates have allowed greed to becloud core gospel messages in their various Christian denominations, the church nonetheless, always stands for what is right and good. 
                           
What is the way forward for Nigeria? The way forward is we must begin to let the truth prevail.