Challenges Nigerians to mobilise for protests Former Chairman of Trade Union Congress (TUC) in Oyo State and Convener of All Workers Convergence (AWC), Andrew Emelieze, has accused President Muhammadu Buhari’s government of debasing the country with its policies and programmes. In a statement, yesterday, the labour leader said it is obvious that protest is inevitable in Nigeria now, because the last seven years of Buhari has been suffocating Nigerians. According to Emelieze, things are getting worse per moment with people regretting voting Buhari to power. He cited the current fuel and naira scarcity as proof of how Buhari is systematically and gradually strangulating Nigerians. The unionist stated: “Our people have been choking under Buhari. Everybody is fed up, frustrated and totally disappointed in Buhari, such that the feelings of our people is that this government is cursed that it cannot do anything good. The major fear now is, can a government that has failed in all ramifications conduct successful general elections? “It is the general view of Nigerians that Buhari has disappointed the masses. The country has been moving from one confusion to another, as if Buhari is an author of confusion. “Our people are dying in cold blood for lack of national security. Many more are dying of poverty and in some cases suicide has been a way to escape the torture in Nigeria. Mental and the general health of Nigerians are badly affected and most of the deaths in Nigeria are as a result of social pressure. Lots more of our people are abandoned on the streets homeless and destitute, dying unnoticed by the Nigerian state, and their death unrecorded.” He challenged the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and TUC to rise up and query the administration, to end the gradual killing of Nigerians. He added: “Nigerians are left with no other option but mass protest until the government stops the mass sufferings of the Nigerian people. Nigerians, rise up now and protest against naira and fuel scarcity as well as the prevailing high cost of living. Say no to fuel price hike. Say no to electricity tariff hike. Say no to the high cost of living. Say no to killings everywhere. “We are all feeling the pain, do not wait for anyone to mobilise you; organise from wherever you are. From Monday, January 30, 2023, let us swoop on the streets and refuse to be intimidated. This protest is a moral responsibility of everyone to rescue Nigeria. The AWC supports all calls by Nigerians and the civil society movement to begin nationwide protest immediately everywhere in Nigeria.”