*Announce Sanwo-Olu/Ajegunle Mock Nations Cup *Say nine sporting facilities being built across Lagos to engage 20,000 youths daily The Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Sports, Mr Anthony Adeyinka Adeboye, and the Director General of the Lagos State Sports Commission, Mr. Oluwatoyin Gafar, on Wednesday, said that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu is committed to sports and youth development, the reason he has invested so much in the sector since he came onboard. They spoke, on Wednesday, at a press briefing to announce the 36th edition of the Sanwo-Olu/ Ajegunle Mock Nations Cup starting on Saturday, January 7 to February 19, 2023, in Ajegunle. Gafar disclosed that the state government is developing nine sports facilities simultaneously across the state. According to him, the facilities would be completed before the end of the first term of Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s administration. He further said that with the sporting centres, about 20,000 youths would be participating in different sporting activities every morning. Gafar also said that the construction of the sporting facilities is to engage and revitalised the youths. On his part, Adeboye said that the involvement of the governor in the tournament shows his commitment to sport and youth development. He revealed that Sanwo-Olu would be present to watch the two teams play during the final on February 19. He also said that the governor has committed to yearly support the competition and to make it better each year. Adeboye promised that this year’s competition would be special. A member of the organising committee, AbdoulBaq Ladi Balogun, said he decided to be part of the tournament because it is about his community and because he is passionate about his community and youth development. “And the inspiration is from the governor, Babajide Sonwa-Olu, who is committed to seeing the fulfilment and the growth of the young ones. For us in Ajegunle, what we are known for is entertainment and sports. In those two areas, the governor dedicated its fifth pillar of the development agenda to entertainment, tourism, and sports. “I am part of this not only because it is my community but also because the project aligns with the vision of the governor. We want to see things going and growing well in Ajegunle. And that is why a competition that has been handed to us by our forebears about 36 years ago, we want to see it grow to hand it over to the next generation to continue the tradition.” According to Balogun, 42 teams adopting different names of African countries would participate in this year’s edition. The winner of the last edition of the competition, Angola, got a cheque of N500,000, while the first and second runner-ups, Libya and Benin Republic, got N300,000 and N200,000 respectively.