The All Progressives Congress (APC) National Youth Leader (NYL), Dayo Israel, has announced the launch of the APC National Youth Wing Campaign Council Directorates. The council will help in the implementation of strategies and tactics developed to give the APC total and youth-driven victory in the 2023 general election. In a statement, Israel said the formation of the council followed due consultation with the national leadership of the APC and other critical stakeholders, including the zonal youth leaders, state youth leaders, among others. The team, which will also serve as election managers, include, Segun Omoworare (Director), Abubakar Fakai (Deputy Director), Zainab Galadima (Deputy Director), Lulu Fawehinmi (Deputy Director) and Oluwaseun Adeleke (Secretary).
Others are, Dr Fabong, Leonard Okafor, Comrade Igwebuike Tochukwu, Dr. Cyril Oshiomhole, Olumuyiwa Adebayo, Abayomi Popoola and Peter Adeshina, as members. He said the formation was in fulfillment of his obligation as the APC National Youth Leader and the head of its youth wing, adding that Article 14.22 of the party’s constitution clearly entrusts the mobilisation of the youth for the attainment of party objectives, including electoral victory, to the NYL. “As would any responsible leader, I appreciate the precious importance of this obligation and I’m fully prepared to meet it as our party makes its case to Nigerians across the country in various elective positions including the presidency with Asiwaju as our standard bearer. “The council will serve as the implementation committee of the APC National Youth Wing Masterplan, which outlines strategies and tactics developed to give the party a total and youth-driven victory in 2023. “The masterplan received the endorsement of our leader and presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, back in August when it was submitted to him by the leadership of the Wing. “The APC National Youth Wing Campaign Council hopes to collaborate with other relevant campaign structures and organs such as the Presidential Campaign Council and the ICC to ensure our party’s poll success.” “That notwithstanding, stakeholders and campaign structures interested in engaging the official structure of the party’s youth wing are strongly advised to channel all communications through the office of the National Youth Leader and the Chairperson of the APC Youth Wing. “I congratulate members of the council, all of whom have been selected in recognition of their devotion to the party, grassroots network, and the essential need to offer them a platform to demonstrate their capacity. “Service on the Council is voluntary, and members, comprising party youths and other important youth stakeholders across sectors, will serve in various sub-units such as the Jagaban’s ‘Army’, Asiwaju’s ‘Airforce’, and BAT’s ‘Envoy’. “Our soldiers in the Jagaban Army will lead grassroots door-to-door mobilisation exercises; captains in Asiwaju Airforce will dominate the airwaves and coordinate media activities; ambassadors in BAT’s Envoy will coordinate and manage public relations. “I encourage all called upon to serve to do so with diligence and strong commitment, bearing in mind the enormity of the responsibility they have been entrusted with and its special significance to the victory and future of our party and country.” 