The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the South-West has described the endorsement of the presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi, by former President Olusegun Obasanjo and former Information Minister, Edward Clark, as good omen for its candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu. National Vice Chairman of the party (South-West), Isaac Kekemeke, while describing the action of the two elder statesmen as blessings in disguise for the APC ahead of the presidential polls, said Tinubu is the only candidate prepared for the plump job. Kekemeke spoke, yesterday in Akure, Ondo State capital, during the inauguration of the Coalition of Christians Leaders in Politics for Bola Ahmed Tinubu and all APC aspirants in collaboration with Yoruba Young Christians Leaders Forum, South-West Region. He said: “For us, it is a good news and the joy of the news is that those they endorsed will not win the election, they will fail. “In this election, it is not about who will be the chairman of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), but who will serve Nigeria better and the only person who can serve Nigeria better is Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “Anybody who cannot tell about his past cannot be given the chance to hold a position.” Kekemeke, therefore, advised Christians across the states not to be allowed to be deceived in the name of religious affiliations to choose wrongly in the forthcoming general elections in the country, saying: “What we need at this time around is someone who will deliver and serve Nigeria better. “My good message for the good people of the South-West is to fully support the ambition of Tinubu to become the president because he is the only best candidate among others candidates. Tinubu is the best, and most qualify person who can govern this country.” On his part, Secretary of the APC Presidential Campaign Council for Ondo Central Senatorial District, Ayotunde Bally, said Nigerians are not gullible, as they would support Tinubu massively despite the endorsement of Obi. “Nigerians know the capacity of Asiwaju Tinubu, no endorsement can change their mind not to vote for our candidate,” he said. The Guest Speaker at the event, Rev. Kayode Oladipupo, said: “If Tinubu emerges the winner, it will become an opportunity for Christians across the states to prepare in the future for the presidency. “What we need in this incoming government of Tinubu is Attorney-General, who is a Christian in mind and truth. We need Senate President and Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF). If we can have these three positions, it is enough for the eight years of Tinubu government. “Muslim-Muslim ticket is a strategy of God to reposition Christianity in Nigeria and that is why we must vote for Tinubu and his running mate, Shettima, in the coming general elections.”