Deputy Senate President and Delta All Progressives Congress governorship candidate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, has told residents of the state to feel free to collect any money offered them as last minute bribes by Governor Ifeanyi Okowa and the People’s Democratic Party but make sure they vote them out in the coming elections. Senator Omo-Agege gave the charge on Wednesday when the ongoing ward-to-ward campaigns of the APC touched down in Jesse, Ethiope West, and Eku and Abraka in Ethiope East LGAs of Delta state. He urged Deltans to be resolute in their determination to end the suffering imposed by the Governor Okowa led PDP government in nearly eight years, and asked that they should take any money offered in whatever guise, but proceed to vote PDP out. Senator Omo-Agege said Governor Okowa punished Deltans for nearly eight years of his administration by cornering their common patrimony for his personal political ambition of becoming a vice president; refused to pay retirees their gratuities; failed to implement minimum wage for workers, while arbitrarily increasing school fees of state owned tetiary institutions. He therefore called on Deltans to reward Governor Okowa and PDP by voting all candidates of the APC in the elections, and extinguish PDP from Delta state. He called on political leaders who have condoned Governor Okowa’s misrule to publicly apologize to Deltans. He pointed out that the Eku Baptist hospital which was once the pride of Deltans, had under the PDP led government of Dr Okowa, become a shadow of itself. He promised to bring the hospital back to life when elected governor. “The time to make a change has come; participate in the ballot revolution. All Deltans are angry. The only solution is to come out and wipe away everything that represents PDP. Wipe away Okowa and Atiku at the polls. Come out and vote Omo-Agege as governor. All the challenges that Okowa refused to address, we will address. Just make sure you vote in all APC candidates.” At Abraka, hometown of All Progressives Grand Alliance, APGA, governorship candidate, Chief Great Ogboru, the President General of Oruarivie Clan, Chief Efe Don Kigho, said leadership of the Community irrespective of their political affiliation, met three months earlier and resolved to endorse Senator Omo-Agege as sole Governorship candidate. At Jesse, Eku and Abraka, the rallies became a carnival of sorts, as party supporters rolled out drums to receive and celebrate the Delta APC campaign train.  