The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in Enugu State, has denied the claim that the party sponsored the protest by aggrieved members of All Progressives Congress (APC) over alleged involvement of Chairman of the party, Ugochukwu Agballah, and the governorship candidate, Uche Nnaji, in N1.3b fraud scandal in the state. Aggrieved members of the APC, under the auspices of Concerned Members of Enugu State APC, had protested at the national headquarters of the party in Abuja, on Monday, exposing the fraud, and called for the removal of Agballah for a caretaker committee in the state. Agballah had, while reacting to the protest, accused the PDP of sponsoring the protest to undermine the progress the party has made in the state. Addressing journalists in Enugu, yesterday, Enugu State PDP Campaign Council Spokesperson, Chief Nana Ogbodo, denied that the party had a hand in the crisis and protest rocking APC. He asked Agballah to go and settle with members of his party or go to court to clear his name. Ogbodo said:  “We have, as usual, been dragged into a purely APC affair by Ugochukwu Agballah, who has claimed that protesters were sponsored by the PDP. Of course, Agballah’s penchant for looking for scapegoats rather than face his demons is legendary. “Ordinarily, the state PDP should have no business with the self-confessed fraud, embezzlement and impunity going on in the state chapter of APC, except to say that they have further shown the world that they have no good intentions for the state. “Besides, the APC has never been a factor in elections in the state, let alone now that key stakeholders of the APC, in Enugu, have abandoned the party to Agballah and his godfathers. According to Ogbodo, the crisis rocking Enugu APC has lingered and predates current election season.
Ogbodo stressed that the fight in APC had nothing to do with PDP. He added: “It will be interesting to see Agballah go to court as he boasted. That is the civil thing to do. Probably, his aggrieved party members will be able to provide details and showcase his nakedness to the world.” PDP called on the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to step in to investigate the weighty allegations made by APC leaders against Agballah and  Nnaji.