The South East Progressives Movement (SEPM) for Ahmed Bola Tinubu-Shettima Presidential Campaign has vowed to mobilise over three million votes for the candidates in the region. They called on the electorate in the 129 constituencies in the zone to vote for Tinubu-Shettima ticket during the election, saying both men have all it takes to take Nigeria to its desired destination. Rising from a monthly meeting in Enugu, yesterday, hosted by their patron and immediate past Enugu State All Progressives Congress (APC) Chairman, Dr. Ben Nwoye, the support group said it would take campaign for the victory of the APC presidential candidate to every nook and cranny of the South East. A communiqué issued by the group was signed by its Ebonyi State Coordinator, Ngozichi Okorie; Abia State Coordinator, Nnaemeka Otagburu; Enugu State Coordinator, Chime Edeh; Imo State Coordinator, Blessing Nwaoba and Anambra State Coordinator, Toochukwu Anadi. According to the group: “The support group is one of the duly registered and recognised groups for Tinubu and Shettima campaign. “As a grassroots organisation, it is committed towards ensuring the success of all APC candidates in Nigeria. “Several issues that relate to the coming elections, including campaign activities of the group and its other matters of interest, especially in the South East, were reviewed during the meeting. “The group agreed on a roadmap for the implementation of a political campaign that will ensure that the South East secures more than three million votes for the APC presidential candidate in the 2023 election. They resolved to mobilise their supporters across constituencies to ensure that APC wins at both the national levels and  the South East, especially the presidential election. The group resolved to donate a campaign office for Tinubu-Shettima campaign to serve as a rallying point for campaign activities of APC in the region, which was officially commissioned and opened to the public on December 29, 2022. The group, therefore, called on all eligible voters in the region to vote for Tinubu and Shettima “as their candidature holds the key to the development of the zone.”