Some traditional rulers in Ijebu-North Local Government Area of Ogun have thrown their weight behind the second term bid of Gov. Dapo Abiodun, assuring him of their total support. Mr Kunle Somorin, Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to the governor, stated this on Saturday in a statement made available to newsmen in Abeokuta. Somorin said that the Orimolusi of Ijebu-Igbo, Oba Lawrence Adebajo, made the pledge on behalf of other traditional rulers at a meeting with the governor held in the Oba’s Palace at Ijebu-Igbo. Adebajo said that the governor had shown exemplary leadership and performance in the past three years of his administration as impact of democracy was being felt in many parts of the state. He said, “Gov. Abiodun has done well in less than four years. If not that it is traditional for those seeking political offices to campaign, his work has campaigned for him.” He noted that most of the projects that the governor embarked on were completed within his first four years; so, we need him to complete the ones that are ongoing. “Governor, we thank you for Ilisan-Ago-Iwoye road. “For some time now, I have not plied that road, but some people persuaded me to use the road recently and I was pleasantly surprised to see the level of work done on that road. “Your achievements are commendable and I can assure you that we will support you for the second term,” he added. The Orimolusi called on the government to look into the problem of water supply in the town. He appealed to the governor to revive the Apoje Farm Project, which he described as the pride of the community. Responding, Abiodun thanked the traditional rulers for partnering with his administration to engender peace and harmony in their respective domains. The governor noted that the Ijebu North Local Government Area which used to be the hub for chaos in the state has now  become crisis free. On the issue of pipe borne water, the governor said, “We have had problems with water supply not only in Ijebu-Igbo, but in other parts of the state. “The issue of water needs total overhauling because most of the problems we have has to do with the pipes that were damaged during road construction by the previous administration. “I can assure you that power and water supply will be paramount in our second term because you can not solve the issue of water without solving that of power.” He acknowledged that four years would not be adequate to execute all that his administration had planned, assuring that the administration would continue in its determination to build the state. Abiodun, therefore, urged the traditional rulers to impress it on their subjects to collect their Permanent Voter Cards and vote for all the candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to sustain the developmental strides being witnessed in Ogun. 