Medical fraud can be a serious issue when accessing medication online. Fake websites that offer medicines without a prescription, often in the form of counterfeit or unapproved drugs, can pose a significant risk to consumer health. These websites may also be involved in selling expired or contaminated drugs, which can be dangerous if taken. In addition to the potential health risks, fake websites can also be involved in other types of fraud, such as identity theft and credit card fraud. Consumers’ personal information can be at risk when purchasing through fake websites. Some may also charge for medications that they will not deliver. The Rick Simpson Foundation team, a non-profit cancer recovery group from California, wants to avoid this kind of danger and ensure that their clients only get legitimate Rick Simpson Oil (RSO) products from them. To address this, they have successfully acquired the domain RickSimpsonOil.com after having RSO in the market for the past 13 years. Rick Simpson Oil, named after its founder and creator, Rick Simpson, is a product believed to be an alternative cancer treatment to chemotherapy and radiation. Rick first experienced the benefit of its key ingredient when he used it as a treatment for his medical conditions, which led him to actively advocate for its safe use. All About The Acquisition The acquisition includes the RickSimpsonOil.com domain name and brand awareness as the official Rick Simpson Oil homepage. “With all the fake RSO websites out there, we’re trying to make things easier for cancer patients and their loved ones to access real quality medicine without getting scammed along the way,” Simpson Foundation Company director Kyle Linder explains. One-Stop Access To All Things RSO The new website features an easy way to shop all RSO variants together with the specific dosage the buyer prefers and the price for each. It also now contains the company’s expanded product line, which includes RSO tinctures, suppositories, capsules, and gummies. With this, buyers can browse through all products with their corresponding images hassle-free. Aside from the products, the website also contains the RSO protocol – the ultimate guide on safely and effectively administering the product. It provides information about the suggested dosage, for how many days, what the patient will feel after, and some important notes and disclaimers. This is an essential feature of the website as it explains the proper consumption of the product to avoid any dangers like overdose and any side effects. The website also explains the products’ shipping guidelines – the schedule of shipping, the expected number of days for arrival, and return and cancellation policies. As RSO is now available for shipping worldwide, people need to know the shipping expectations regarding their specific locations. With RickSimpsonOil.com, people can now easily access all concerns related to RSO without fearing being scammed or receiving fake products. 