Preparations are in top gear for the centenary anniversary of the famous Baptist Boys’ High School, Abeokuta. This was disclosed by the Board of Trustees (BoT) of the school’s Old Boys’ Association under the leadership of Oba Adedotun Aremu Gbadebo, the Alake of Egbaland. According to the BoT, many of the physical infrastructure projects initiated or facilitated by the association are near completion for the anniversary, which holds from January  16 to January 23. Among these are the Sir Kensington Adebutu Alumni Building, built by Sir Kessington Adebutu; the 500-capacity new sports complex and the main entrance to the school premises, all of which are undergoing painting in readiness for commissioning. Also, to be commissioned are the new N43m main access built by the 1984 class set and the Centennial Park built by the Old Boys’ Association. Prof. Olukayode Oyesiku, a former Vice Chancellor of Tai Solarin University of Education and National President of the association, has called on all old boys to fulfil their commitment to the celebrations by making their minimum statutory contributions, which will grant them access to all the programmes lined up for the event.. The anniversary will feature lectures, a road walk, Muslim and Christian religious services, career talks and an awards dinner. Dignitaries expected during the anniversary include Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Dr Akinwunmi Adesina, President, Africa Development Bank (AfDB); prominent old boys such as former President Olusegun Obasanjo, Otunba Gbenga Daniel, former governor of Ogun State; and Mr. Dimeji Sabur Bankole, former Speaker of the House of Representatives. Founded 23 January 1923 by Baptist missionaries, BBHS is famous for producing many eminent Nigerians across various fields. Aside Obasanjo, Daniel and Bankole, the school produced Justice Bola Ajibola, retired World Court judge; Chief Funso Kupolokun, former Group Managing Director, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Otunba Gbenga Daniel, former governor of Ogun State; and Dr Onalapo Soleye, former Federal Commissioner of Finance; and Kayode Soyinka, publisher of Africa Today.
 
It also similarly the late Chief MKO Abiola, Professor Adeoye Lambo, renowned psychiatrist and Deputy Director-General of the World Health Organisation; his brother and alternative medicine icon, Chief JO Lambo; Professor Ojetunji Aboyade, famous economist, and Chief SMA Afolabi, Second Republic Deputy Governor of Oyo State. 