Gov vows to enforce due process
Osun State Governor, Ademola Adeleke, has restated his desire to transform the state and make it a shining light among others. The governor gave the assurance at the 2023 Inter-religious service held at the Government Secretariat in Osogbo to usher in the New Year. Adeleke assured the people that he would light up Osogbo, other major cities and townships in the state. “We shall get to the promised land. Never again will you see Osun State being dirty again. Osogbo will not be out of electricity again, will never go dark again and there will be regular power supply. I am going to rule with the fear of God,” the governor promised. He urged the people to cultivate the habit of supporting the state in any capacity they found themselves, urging workers to join hands with him to move the state forward in the discharge of their duties as their welfare is of utmost priority in his government. “We should not ask for what Osun State will do for us, but we must continue to think of what to do for the state. All hands must be on deck to move the state forward.” MEANWHILE, the governor has reinstated his commitment to uphold the rule of law and enforce due process, particularly in the area of chieftaincy affairs. He made the declaration, yesterday, while receiving the report from members of the committee on chieftaincy affairs headed by its Chairman, Rev. Bunmi Jenyo. The committee was inaugurated on November 29, 2022 with a mandate to look at the controversy in the chieftaincy affairs of Osun State, particularly with respect to all kingship appointments made after July 16 governorship election in the state. Jenyo, while handing over the report to Adeleke, said that members of the committee discharged their duties with equity, fairness and justice without compromising on its mandate. He said the committee came up with far-reaching recommendations to assist the state government to make future decision in the area of chieftaincy affairs of Osun State. Adeleke, while responding, commended the committee for delivering diligently on its mandate and promised to study the report and implement the recommendations contained therein. He said that the committee’s report, when implemented, would contribute to peaceful coexistence among the people of the state as regards traditional ruling affairs. 