A youth-based socio-political group across 15 wards in Odogbolu Council of Ogun State, Fìtílà Movement, yesterday, endorsed the re-election bid of Governor Dapo Abiodun and All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu. The group also pledged its support for APC candidates in the forthcoming general election. This was disclosed at the unveiling of campaign materials by APC candidates. The coordinator of the group, Ladejobi Shuaib, stated that it was important to sensitise the people on the achievements of the party both at the state and national level, adding that endorsing all APC candidates from the presidency to the state House of Assembly was important to the development of the country. Shuaib, who doubles as chairman of Odogbolu Council, stated Tinubu and Abiodun victory would improve the economy and guarantee local government autonomy. On his part, the media coordinator of the group, Mogaji Tunde, said the implementation of Abiodun’s ISEYA agenda since assumption of office has set the state on development path. “His all-inclusiveness governance has earned him an almost no opponent contest in Ogun State. This has given other APC candidates in the state a smooth ride to winning all the elective office in the 2023 general election. “We are clamouring and working for Tinubu’s Presidency because of his track record as a former governor of Lagos. The impacts can’t be denied or ignored, because the template is still very much in use and the successes of Lagos is open for all to see. We are ready and prepared to deliver and support APC for us to continue to enjoy more dividends of democracy in Odogbolu, and Nigeria at large.” On his part, the group’s Monitoring and Evaluation Director said all the APC candidates have a track record of achievement that speak for them. “Governor Abiodun has continued to spread the dividend of democracy to all the wards in Odogbolu. He has delivered on infrastructure and road constructions including, Ijebu Ode-Epe, Ibefun-Itokin-Ikorodu, Ilesan-Ijebu Ijesha-Ago-Iwoye road, among others. “He has renovated public health centers, built and renovated several public schools both primary and secondary, upgrading of college of education to University of Education, Science and Technology and several welfare programs that has continued to better the life of our people in Odogbolu.”