Rekindled optimism of the Federal Government to float a new national carrier in the twilight of this administration berates sincerity and real national interest. Characteristically, this administration promised more for aviation development than it has delivered and the telltale signs are all over the industry. But a horridly packaged new national carrier will not assuage inherent poor leadership in the air transport sector nor cover up for policy missteps. In place of another albatross, the Ministry of Aviation should stay focused on realistic developmental policies.  It is a shame that the incubation phase of the national carrier has taken forever where the likes of Ibom Air, owned by Akwa Ibom State government, started small in about a year of conception and earned a major stake in Nigerian domestic airspace. How come the likes of Boeing and Airbus plane manufacturers are not showing interest or signing deals to avail brand new aircraft to launch the new carrier like Boeing has done in Ghana? Why are the local stakeholders that earlier warmed up to the project turning their backs on it, describing it as “Sirika’s project” and a giveaway to ET that is already an operator and fellow competition on the continental space? The minister should be answerable and made accountable for every penny spent on the project to date.
   
Tellingly, the minister has failed in his remit. Though he came in as an aviator and has been the longest serving helmsman, his deliverable has been less than convincing. As an aviator that understands the prevailing operating environment, he knows that there are too many booby-traps in the local environment that hobble the growth of all operating carriers, including the proposed national carrier. There are perennial problems of decrepit airport infrastructure, low capacity and aircraft underutilisation, multiple taxation, multiple destinations for foreign carriers, foreign exchange scarcity to fund aircraft maintenance and buy spares, scarcity and hike in the cost of aviation fuel. As a ministry in particular and government in general, what solutions or policies have been proffered to ameliorate these problems to save the sector from imminent collapse? The foreign airlines are exploiting Nigerian air travellers through hike in airfares and the stuck fund window; does that bother local authorities? It is not enough for a government to blame unanticipated challenges for its woes. The actual business of governance and leadership is to solve those problems and not give excuses that are typical of charlatans.
  
Surely, the local operating environment is not homely for a new national carrier notwithstanding its benefits. And to save our cash-strapped country from another round of wastages, more legal fireworks and heartaches in the post-Buhari era, it is safe to ditch the national carrier plan for now. Rather, Sirika, the ministry of aviation and relevant stakeholders should pay closer attention to policy formulation for the development of the sector and the economy at large.   Successful aviation sectors, in other parts of the world, are designed to complement other sectors like tourism, logistic services, agriculture, mining and so on. Aviation in Nigeria needs such a robust template and problem-solving leadership to turn the corner and have an enviable sector for all to thrive. A new national carrier, no matter how well-intentioned, will not fill that void.