Download logo On January 10, 2023 local time, Foreign Minister Qin Gang and Ethiopian Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Demeke Mekonnen Hassen jointly met the press.  Qin Gang said that Ethiopia is a major and developing country with important influence in Africa and an important cooperative partner of China in Africa. Since the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries more than 50 years ago, no matter how the international landscape changes, the China-Ethiopia friendship has remained unbreakable and grown stronger over time. In recent years, under the strategic guidance of the leaders of the two countries, China-Ethiopia relations have maintained high-level development, and practical cooperation in various fields has yielded fruitful results. During his visit, Qin Gang visited Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed Ali and held talks with Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Demeke Mekonnen Hassen. The two sides reached a high-level consensus. Both sides agreed that: The two sides need to consolidate and deepen political mutual trust and be partners that firmly support each other on issues concerning each other's core interests and major concerns. The two sides need to align development strategies, expand practical cooperation, better leverage the economic and social benefits brought by the flagship projects of bilateral cooperation, such as the Addis Ababa-Djibouti Railway, make efforts to expand the scale of bilateral trade and investment, deepen mutual benefit and win-win results, and be partners for common development. China encourages more Chinese companies to take an active part in Ethiopia's reconstruction. The two sides need to strengthen coordination on multilateral affairs and jointly address global challenges. China supports Ethiopia in playing a greater role in international and regional affairs, and stands ready to communicate and cooperate with Ethiopia closely and be partners that jointly safeguard international fairness and justice. Qin Gang said, China-Ethiopia relations are embracing new opportunities and broad prospects for development. China is ready to work with Ethiopia to jointly work for more fruitful outcomes in China-Ethiopia traditional friendship for the benefit of the two countries and peoples. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Embassy of the People’s Republic of China in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.