The Prime Minister of India and President, of G20 Partners, Shri Narendra Modi, has called for global reforms that focus on giving voice to the concerns of the developing world, and reflect the realities of the 21st Century. Modi spoke at the conclusion of the Voice of Global South Summit held January 13 In India and made available to the Media yesterday in Abuja, under the theme, ‘Unity of Voice, Unity of Purpose. The President noted that developing countries desire globalization that does not create a climate crisis or debt crisis but that, which does not lead to unequal distribution of vaccines or over-concentrated global supply chains. He said: “We want globalization that brings prosperity and well-being to humanity as a whole. In short, we want a ‘human-centric globalization’, he said. Adding: “We developing countries are also concerned about the increasing fragmentation of the international landscape. These geopolitical tensions distract us from focusing on our development priorities. They cause sharp swings in international prices of food, fuel, fertilizers and other commodities.” President Modi stated further that to address this geopolitical fragmentation, there was an urgent need for fundamental reform of the major international organizations, including the United Nations Security Council and the Bretton Woods Institutions, stressing that India’s G20 Presidency will attempt to voice the views of the Global South on such important issues. He said: “In its development partnerships, India’s approach has been consultative, outcome-oriented, demand-driven, people-centric, and respectful of the sovereignty of partner countries. I firmly believe that countries of the Global South have a lot to learn from each other’s development experiences. “I am happy to announce that India will establish a ‘Global-South Center of Excellence.’ This institution will undertake research on development solutions or best practices of any of our countries, which can be scaled and implemented in other members of the Global South. “As an example, the digital public goods developed by India in fields like electronic payments, health, education, or e-governance, can be useful for many other developing countries. “India has also made great strides in areas like space technology and nuclear energy. We will launch a ‘Global-South Science and Technology initiative’ to share our expertise with other developing nations. “During the COVID pandemic, India’s ‘Vaccine Maitri’ initiative supplied made-in-India vaccines to over a 100 nations. I would now like to announce a new ‘Aarogya Maitri’ project. Under this project, India will provide essential medical supplies to any developing country affected by natural disasters or humanitarian crisis.” Adding: “For synergizing our diplomatic voice, I propose a ‘Global-South Young Diplomats Forum’ to connect youthful officers of our foreign ministries. India will also institute ‘Global-South Scholarships’ for students from developing countries to pursue higher education in India.” He noted that the theme of the summit was inspired by the ancient wisdom of India that people should come together and speak together. He concluded by praying that humans’ minds may be in harmony.