The governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abia State, Chief Ikechi Emenike, has declared 2023 as the year of liberation for people of the state, who has not enjoyed dividends of democracy for over two decades. In his new year message to the people and entire residents of the state, Emenike noted that 2023 would be a remarkable year in the history of Abia.
He said: “This is the year to end godfatherism in Abia; the year to send looters out of government house; the year to break the chain of transferring power among people bereft of ideas of good governance.” The factional governorship candidate explained that with the arrival of New Year, the 2023 electioneering has entered the homestretch, which would culminate in the election; hence, the need for Abians to prepare and vote for change. He advised Abia voters not to leave anything to chance as 2023 general elections have presented “a great opportunity for us to take back our state from plunderers of our collective patrimony.” “We must rescue our state so that we can develop and make it great as truly God’s Own State where transparency, accountability and people-oriented government would be entrenched. The development economist reiterated his determination to lead the Abia Rescue Movement to a successful outcome at the polls. He promised to set up building blocks of development to activate a holistic development of the state. He urged Abia youths to cast off despondency associated with unemployment, assuring them that he would ensure jobs are sustainably created. Emenike also encouraged mothers to renew their hope of a new dawn in Abia where they would be empowered to take adequate care of their families. He assured that mothers that their children would be gainfully employed after graduation from higher institutions. He said: “Abia is now at the threshold of the much expected break from the past, characterised by persistent decay of infrastructure and looting of resources meant for project execution and salary payments. “We must collectively make efforts, as individuals, groups, leaders, stakeholders, fathers, mothers to rescue our state from dark forces of stagnation. The chance to do this has come.”