Value-Driven Leadership (VDL) has launched a town hall app to galvanise support for Labour Party (LP) presidential standard-bearer, Peter Obi. The team of professionals, while restating its commitment to reshaping Nigeria’s political and governance landscape, explained that the mobile application would ease coordination among supporters of the former Anambra State governor. During the unveiling in Lagos, the group advised that no one should sit on the fence or just talk about the country’s numerous problems without the willingness to be part of the solution. Described as a game changer, the grassroots mobilisation application has all support groups of the candidate and party and serves as a platform hosting and providing information on the 2023 general elections. Co-convener of VDL, Nwamaka Okoye, said: “Nigeria urgently needs strong electioneering and governance systems to usher in a new generation of leaders. We built the town hall app to turn online advocacy into offline action. “With the application, Obidients will receive their day-to-day mandate directly from the campaign, state coordinators, support groups and polling unit members across the country. “Furthermore, the app will aid the Labour Party Presidential Campaign Council to monitor and manage an already successful campaign effectively.” Director-General of the campaign council, Akin Osuntokun, said: I am glad this generation has discovered purpose; now is the time to stay true to it. I thank VDL for what they are doing and encourage them to do more.” On his part, Special Adviser to Obi on Technology and Strategic Alliances, Valentine Ozigbo, submitted: “I would like to commend VDL for spearheading the Obi/Datti campaign across the 19 northern states and the timely launch of the town hall platform. “The usefulness of this tool can not be overstated as it will change the dynamics of this election and help HE Peter Obi become the next President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,” he added. Director-General, Big-Tent, Alhaji Ibrahim Abdulkarim, hailed the launch, describing it as a masterstroke. “The town hall app is custom-built to organise Obidients from national, state, LGA, wards to polling units. The app will enable us to canvas better and monitor votes come February 25, 2023,” he enthused. In his remarks, the Coordinator of Labour Party Presidential Campaign Council for Imo State, Chief Martin Agbaso, described the platform as an incredible tool that would scale the tremendous work of Obidients nationwide and propel the Obi-Datti candidacy into office. 