• Govt to build new parish to honour Achi
• Nab 14 for killing village head of Lambata The Niger State Police Command has arrested 19 suspects in connection with the burning of a Police Division during a protest over killing of the Priest of St. Peters and Paul Catholic Church, Reverend Father. Isaac Achi by bandits in Kafin Koro community of Paikoro local council of Niger State on January 17, 2023. Spokesperson for the Command, Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Wasiu Abiodun in a statement revealed that the irate youth leader, Abdulkadir identified all the suspects who were part of the crime. He said the irate youth leader equally mentioned about 28 other suspects who are at large. The Command said it had set free innocent persons who were wrongly arrested, pointing out that all the suspects have been arraigned before a court for prosecution. MEANWHILE, the Niger State Government has promised to build a new Parish in Kafin Koro community of Paikoro local council of the state in honour of Late Rev. Fr. Achi. Secretary to the State Government, Ahmed Matane gave the hint when he led government delegation to the Catholic Bishop of Minna, Most Rev. Martin Uzoukwu, at the St. Micheal’s Catholic Cathedral Minna to commiserate with the Christian community over the unfortunate incident. The SSG described late Rev. Fr. Achi as an exceptional clergy, who preached salvation and impacted positively on his followers everywhere he served. Responding, Most Reverend Uzoukwu appreciated the government delegation for the visit. IN a similar development, Niger State Police Command has nabbed fourteen suspects in connection to the killing of Village Head of Lambata, in Gurara local council of the state on January14, 2023. According to DSP Abiodun, the suspects in their large number stormed the residence of the late Village Head, Alhaji Mohammed Abdulsafur. He further stated that during the attack, the suspects inflicted injuries on Abdulsafur and his younger brother, Ibrahim Mohammed, and the village head was later confirmed dead in the hospital, as a result of injuries sustained during the attacked. The PPRO said during the interrogation, the suspects confessed that there had been a lingering Chieftaincy tussle between the late Village Head, and Umar Ilyasu Sarki, who claimed that the 37 ward Heads (Mai Anguwa), in the community are loyal to him, noting that they did not recognise Abdulsafur. It also stated that efforts are ongoing to arrest fleeing members of the group as the investigation is being intensified, while the suspects will be arraigned in court for prosecution. The Niger State Commissioner of Police, Ogundele Ayodele, has warned the citizens to desist from any act of taking laws into their hands and allow the process of criminal justice system to take its course in the dispensation of justice, as there will always be a consequence for every misdeed in accordance to the rule of law. 