The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Cross River Command, impounded 8 trucks laden with suspected adulterated petroleum product in the state in 2022. Commandant of NSCDC in Cross River, Mr Samuel Fadeyi, disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on his achievements in office in 2022. Fadeyi told NAN on Sunday in Calabar that over 10 suspects were arrested in connection with the crime during the period under review. According to him, the trucks were conveying premium motor spirit and suspected adulterated diesel. He told NAN that the cases were charged to court in line with the Corps mandate. Fadeyi explained that NSCDC has the mandate of providing protection to federal, state and local  government infrastructure including petroleum product, energy and telecommunications facilities nationwide. “In the year 2022, we impounded 8 trucks conveying suspected adulterated petroleum products and we arrested over 10 suspects. “The trucks were conveying premium motor spirit and suspected adulterated diesel. “We also arrested 13 suspects for vandalising the Portharcourt Electricity Distribution Company cables and other facilities. “Also in 2022, we arrested some suspects for attempting to vandalise the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation pipeline at Esuk Utan community in Calabar Municipality. “During the period under review, NSCDC officials were also involved in rescue operations of most kidnapped cases in the state,” he said. On capacity building, he told NAN that over 25 officers were trained on Safe School Initiative which was geared towards the protection of secondary schools against insecurity. Similarly, he said that the command trained all divisional officers in the state and over 30 desk officers on gender based violence. “Also in 2022, we launched operation flush on trailer parks in the state in line with the Commandant General’s directive to flush out illegal bunkers in the state. “The teams carried out raids in various trailer parks in Biase, Akamkpa, Calabar South and Municipal local government areas which led to the discovery and destruction of adulterated petroleum product. “During the period under review, the private guard department monitored, supervised, trained and inspected some private guards companies in the state at their various beats. “The department aided the internally generated revenue of the federal government arising from license issuance and renewals with about N5million despite the lull in the industry in the state,” he added. He gave assurance that the command under his leadership would continue to employ new strategies targeted towards crime prevention and control in the state. 