Owners of small and medium-scale enterprises (SMEs) have commended Sterling Bank Plc for showcasing their products to local and international consumers at the just concluded first edition of the Made-By-Nigerians International Trade Fair organised by the bank. Some of the exhibitors who shared their thoughts on the fair, which was held at the Podium Events Centre, Lekki-Lagos, commended the financial institution for organising the fair to promote the best of Made-by-Nigerians to the world. Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer (MD/CEO) of The Spa Melori, Carla Sonjirin, commended the bank for creating visibility for SMEs and enabling entrepreneurs to showcase their products and services to the rest of the world. Sonjirin said The Spa Melori prioritises health and wellness, especially in a place like Lagos that is characterised by stress. She explained that people can take time out to attend to their wellbeing and enjoy the services provided by the company. She described The Spa Melori as a wellness company that advises and treats clients on self-care, body treatment, massage treatment and skin treatment in a relaxed environment. Also speaking, MD/CEO of Eros Crafted, Ehis Eros, said the organisation of the fair by the bank is a welcome development for the growth and visibility of products made by Nigerians, adding that the development will help SMEs to improve their sales figures. Eros advised the bank to provide credit facilities to SMEs to enable them to employ more people and buy equipment. The co-founder of Zorkle, a clothing brand, Ahmed Akinsemoyin, said the bank should keep the fair growing and encourage other indigenous businesses to join the platform created for made by Nigerian products. He said the market is showing that a lot of Nigerians want to experience products made by fellow Nigerians and advised the bank to sustain the momentum behind the effort to create the Nigerian brand. According to him, the Nigerian business space is still at a level that is still crawling and there is room for growth and expansion but there is a need for an enabling environment to enable businesses to maximise the local and export markets. As part of its commitment to the growth and development of Nigerian businesses and the economy, Sterling Bank, Nigeria’s leading financial institution recently created the Made-By-Nigerians platform and hosted a hybrid international trade fair to showcase products registered on the platform. The fair was characterized by physical and virtual exhibitions, workshops, discounts, freebies, huge deals, games, refreshments, and entertainment, among others. Some of the exhibitors at the fair include Spar Melori, Firoti, February by Munirah, Lola Signature, Belmot Stitches, Mandry Luxury, Zorkle, Marble Stitches, Adire Lounge, Ty-Tys Designs, Dang Lifestyle, Morin O and Nellies. Others are Mc Coman, Zeinny Crafts, Mak Africa, Philz Signature, Folee Lagos, Kokomi Africa, Agbeyeloja Eko, Kingla, Cool Republic, Saint Calypso Couture International, The Nord Motors among others. 