Download logo Today, President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi met with Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation of Italy, Mr. Antonio Tajani. The meeting was also attended by Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Sameh Shoukry, and Italy's Ambassador in Cairo, Mr. Michele Quaroni.  The Spokesman for the Presidency said the President welcomed the Italian Foreign Minister on his visit to Cairo, confirming his appreciation for the close historical relations the two countries share. The President underscored the importance that Egypt attaches to further advancing these relations across various dimensions during the coming stage. He also stressed commitment to promoting the ongoing coordination and consultations between the two countries to address the numerous regional challenges in the Mediterranean region. Italy’s Minister of Foreign Affairs expressed honor to meet with President El-Sisi. He confirmed that the visit represented a clear message on the solid historical relations that bind the two countries as well as the Italian government's intent to further consolidate these relations in the coming period. This is, in addition to furthering coordination on regional issues of common interest, particularly in light of Egypt’s pivotal role as a fundamental pillar of security and stability in the Middle East and the Eastern Mediterranean. The meeting reflected mutual interest to cultivate closer joint cooperation, including increasing trade, boosting investment relations, and enhancing joint industrial cooperation. This is, in addition to stepping-up cooperation in the field of energy security, particularly in the field of natural gas through the strategic partnership between Egypt and the Italian Company Eni, and in the agricultural sector. A number of regional issues of common interest were also discussed, primarily Egypt’s effective efforts to combat illegal migration, terrorism and extremist ideology. The Italian Foreign Minister valued Egypt’s efforts, under the leadership of President El-Sisi, to disseminate the principles of tolerance and freedom of belief, a culture that has reverberated to Egypt's regional surroundings. The meeting also touched upon the case of Italian student Regeni and cooperation to find the truth and serve justice. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of The Presidency, The Arab Republic of Egypt.