Africa Soft Power is partnering with Africa House, the premier platform for Africa’s engagement at the World Economic Forum’s 2023 Annual Meeting in Davos, on its conference program for the upcoming meeting, which will take place from January 18-19th, 2023. The event features a diverse range of panel discussions and speakers with a focus on highlighting the importance of Africa in global affairs and its potential for inclusive prosperity. “Africa House looks forward to working with our partners and stakeholders to address the most pressing challenges and opportunities facing the continent, and to harnessing the power of innovation and creativity to drive positive change,” said Prof. Landry Signé, Executive Chairman & Co-founder of Africa House, who will be moderating a presidential discussion with Félix Tshisekedi, President of the Democratic Republic of Congo. The event will also include a Trade Panel, hosted by H.E. Wamkele Mene, Secretary General of AfCFTA; a Health is Wealth Panel, co-chaired by Debra Fraser-Howze, Founder of Choose Healthy Life; a special address by Rev. Al Sharpton; a Tech Panel session, co-chaired by Acha Leke, Chairman of McKinsey & Co. Africa, and Singer/songwriter and Co-chair of Africa House, Will I Am, will lead the Africa House Pioneers Breakfast. Speaking on the partnership, Dr Nkiru Balonwu, Founder of Africa Soft Power Group said, “Our partnership with Africa House is built on the belief that advancing Africa is a global imperative. Africa has a real opportunity to bring young talent, fresh ideas, new perspectives, and uniquely creative and commercial solutions to a global economy that right now so obviously needs them”. “We believe that by fostering collaboration and innovation, Africa House can unlock the full potential of the continent and create a brighter future for all,” said Kojo Annan, Co-Founder of Africa House. Africa House itself is focused on bringing the best and brightest entrepreneurs, initiatives, and opportunities to leaders across industry and government attending Davos. “Our conference program will showcase some of the most important and pressing issues facing the continent and will provide a unique perspective on Africa’s role in global affairs. We look forward to welcoming attendees from around the world to Davos for this important event,” said Nima Elmi, CEO of Africa House. The conference will conclude with an Africa House Reception, on Thursday, January 19th. For more information on the conference program, visit: www.myafricahouse.com. And if you are in Davos and would like to attend one of Africa House’s open events, register at: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/africa-house-davos-2023-tickets-513891281657