Borno State Governor, Babagana Zulum, has promised continuous support for organisers of Bura Cultural Day. He stated this recently when he attended the festival in person. Sons and daughters of Babur-Bura ethnic group in Marama community, Hawul Local Council, in the southern part of the state, led by the Emir of Biu, converge on Marama town every January 1, for the cultural event, which began in 2002. When he attended the 2020 edition, Zulum commissioned some developmental projects in the local council.	This edition, which held at the premises of Government Secondary School, Marama, was organised by Marama Community Development Association (MCDA). Commending the community-based organisation, Zulum said: “I am happy to inform this gathering that today’s theme, ‘Effects of Alien Civilisation on Bura Culture’, is apt. “It is my honour to be here for the second time, to rejoice with Babur-Bura on this very important day.” Assuring of his continued support for the organisers of the festival, the governor charged the community to maintain their cultural heritage. His words: “The government of Borno will continue to provide support to MDCA. It is very important for all of us to maintain our cultures. We should not allow our culture to be eroded by modernisation. When you look at the cultural performances displayed here, it is so pleasing to all of us.” Grand Patron of MCDA and the Emir of Biu, Dr. Mai Mustapha Umar II, commended the governor for the numerous developmental projects in Bura land, applauding his effort in the restoration of peace across the state. In their separate remarks, chairman of the occasion, Sen. Ahmed Barta, and the Chairman of MCDA, Samuel Bwala, expressed appreciation to the governor for attending the cultural day in person. Chairman of Hawul, Inuwa Bwala, conducted Zulum and his delegation around the cultural items on display. Five sons of Bura were honoured with awards of excellence at the event. They included former Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai (rtd); Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Appropriation, Muktari Betara; Alex Mahelia, Prof. Samson Duna and Barka Sajou. Hyelampa Ngadda was honoured posthumously. 