The spate of violent attacks on the facilities of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in several states in Nigeria is a grave cause for concern. The attacks are more intensified in the south eastern part of the country. One of the latest attacks, on December 12, 2022 in Imo State was recorded as the 59th on INEC facilities spread across 29 states since 2019. But there have been other attacks also on police formation or security personnel even in the new year. The commission is not sounding false alarm by saying that if not put under control, it will be difficult if not impossible to conduct the elections scheduled for next month and March this year, under the atmosphere of fear and insecurity engendered by the attacks. The Federal Government has full responsibility to enthrone peace, order and an environment conducive for a free and fair election starting from next month. After several assurances by INEC that nothing would derail the conduct of the elections, it was forced to express concern lately on the possible effects of the attacks on the conduct of the elections. While speaking at the public hearing by the House of Representatives Ad-hoc Committee investigating attacks on INEC offices and facilities, Chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, said they were determined to continue to prepare for the elections but warned that should such attacks continue at the pace at which they are happening now, the commission may find it increasingly difficult to recover in good time for the election. The INEC chairman was merely stating the obvious as all stakeholders are aware of the dire situation. House of Representatives Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, while speaking at the inauguration of the committee, said the House of Representatives was disturbed by the systematically orchestrated attacks not only because it poses a threat to INEC’s capacity to conduct the 2023 general election but also because it is an attack on democratic governance. According to Mahmoud, some of the buildings have been attacked twice.  He spoke about a facility in Ebonyi State that was attacked earlier but was rebuilt but was attacked again, “We rebuilt the office and our staff moved in on Friday. On Sunday that weekend, the office was burnt down again and there are five such offices nationwide where in spite of our best efforts, the facility was attacked not only once, but twice. We have five offices in which even after rebuilding or trying to rebuild, the offices were attacked again.” The picture painted above is enough to make Nigerians apprehensive of the safe conduct of the elections. Yet there are other implications of the attacks. For one, it may increase voter apathy, a situation that has worried election observers since the beginning of the democratic process in 1999. Figures available show a progressive decline in voter turnout in both state and national elections. Data released by the International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance (IDEA) shows that even though voter turnout increased from 52 per cent to 69 percent from 1999 to 2003 elections, there has been a progressive slide ever since. It dropped to 57 per cent in 2007, 54 per cent in 2011 and 44 per cent in the 2015 election cycle. By 2019, only 34.75 per cent of eligible voters turned out according to figures released by INEC. In the November 6, 2021 gubernatorial poll in Anambra State, only 10.24 per cent of voters exercised their civic rights. We note that the Anambra election was preceded by heightened tension occasioned by attacks on governmental institutions, public officials and innocent citizens.  There is therefore a link between violence and voter turnout. Clearly, there are dark forces against the peaceful conduct of the 2023 elections in Nigeria. There are also seemingly innocuous calls for postponement of the election from some elder statesmen notably, Chief Afe Babalola who once canvassed something akin to an interim government. We hold that there is no better arrangement in a constitutional democracy that can be substituted for the conduct of a free, fair and open electioneering process where all stakeholders can cast their votes for their preferred candidates. That process is on and must not be derailed under any guise. All efforts must be geared towards the conduct of the 2023 election. There are obstacles on the way but they are surmountable if the will is there. Therefore, security agencies should step up their intelligence gathering networks to nip in the bud these threats and where the crime has been committed, no efforts should be spared to apprehend the perpetrators. In theses regard, their efforts in confronting and arresting some perpetrators of the heinous attack on INEC facility in Imo State are commendable. Those arrested must be brought to book in an open trial to discourage other would-be attackers. Impunity impels further commission of crimes. The electoral commission should not be discouraged but must do all within its means to ensure that the elections hold and that they are free, fair and credible. Majority of Nigerians do not expect anything less. But President Muhammadu Buhari, as the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, and Chief law Enforcement  Officer of Nigeria, should leave no stone unturned to repel all devilish schemes to truncate the election, or to foist apathy on the voters. This is also a clarion call on all Nigerians to stand firm in favour of a credible election. The collective will of the majority cannot be substituted for the chicanery of a few vested interests. The strength of an electoral process is heavily dependent on the resolve of the electorate. Therefore, this is no time for the electorate to wring their hands in despair but to rise in unison in defence of democratic transition of power. The 2023 elections must hold in an atmosphere devoid of fear and intimidation.