Draw holds Thursday One of Africa’s most prestigious polo championships, the Lagos International Polo Tournament, will gallop off on January 28, the organisers have revealed. According to them, 35 teams have been registered to feature in all the categories. Its well attended draw featured representatives of the various teams expected at the event. The draw was conducted by polo captain, Rotimi Makanjuola, supported by Nigerian Polo Association (NPA) President, Ayo Olashoju, President of Lagos Polo Club, Bode Makanjuola, Tournament Manager, Olumayowa Ogunnusi, among other top polo patrons and players. Three top teams were drawn for the event’s biggest prize, the Majekodunmi Cup, six teams for the Open Cup, while 13 teams each picked their slots for the campaign for the Lagos Low and Silver Cups respectively. The ambitious teams, which are fully armed with foreign professionals and fortified with thoroughbred Argentine horses, are competing for honours for top laurels in subsidiary prizes like the Oba of Lagos Cup, the Governor’s Cup, Adedapo Ojora’s Cup, Sani Dangote Cup, Italian Ambassador’s Cup and Heritage Cup, among others. For the second year in the rich history of the international festival, the glamorous event would be decided over three weeks of bumper-to-bumper polo actions running from Tuesdays to Sundays, with the Open Cup tussles taking the lead in the opening week. Expectedly, Lagos Open Cup, the event’s second most wanted prize, will again provide the electricity that would thrill the grand fiesta that is revered as the biggest sporting festival in the cosmopolitan city of Lagos. Meanwhile, the high stake Majekodunmi Cup promises to be an even bigger web to untangle. A record 26 teams with enough men and horse power to successfully mount a cavalry will mix it all up before any favourite emerges in the crowded Low Cup and Silver Cup respectively. Host, Lagos, will be ably represented by the lords of Ribadu Road, who are the masters of the running game.    Tournament Manager, Mayowa Ogunnisi, disclosed after the draws that many social events have been incorporated into the programme to make the 2023 Lagos polo festival the most exciting and memorable in years. Ogunnisi, who confirmed that all is set for the glamorous event, promised that this year would get better as it has always been over the years adding, “it’s going to be three weekends of thrilling polo experience for the lovers of the game.”