The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State yesterday, flagged off its campaign for the forthcoming elections in the Lagos West II Senatorial district just as the party received into its fold, members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Action Alliance (AA). The district comprises lba LCDA, Oto-Awori LCDA, Badagry, Amuwo-Odofin, Ojo, and Ajeromi Ifelodun Local Government areas. The rally, which held at the open field by Federal Government College, Ijanikin, along Lagos-Badagry Expressway, had in attendance the State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, his deputy, Dr Obafemi Hamzat, former deputy governor, Idiat Adebule, leaders of the party, representatives of ethnic groups, traders’ association, party members and candidates of the APC vying for elective seats in the Senatorial District. Leaders and candidates of the party who spoke at the rally appealed to the electorate to collect their PVCs and vote for APC in the February 25 presidential and senatorial elections and March 11 governorship and State House of Assembly polls. Director General, Lagos APC State Campaign Council, Senator Ganiyu Solomon, in his welcome address, expressed pleasure over the large turnout. He said: “We have gone to many places to show the stuff we are made of. We are here in Lagos West and it’s gratifying. The election we will be having in February is when we will be electing our leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and his vice, Kashim Shetimma. “On the same day, we will elect our National Assembly candidates. Two weeks after, we will re-elect our Governor Sanwo-Olu and his deputy, Hamzat. Likewise, we are going to elect 40 members of the state House of Assembly. “What remains for us is to have our Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs). I am not sure there is anybody here that has not collected his PVC but if there is, let us collect it and vote for APC.” In his remarks, the State Chairman of the party, Pastor Cornelius Ojelabi, while receiving defectors from the PDP and AA from the Badagry division, urged the people to use their votes as an investment for the future. “For true indigenous people of Awori land, the time is right to work together to continue to keep the progressives in power. Any indigene that does otherwise cannot be said to be one of us. In the past, it was said Awori are not educated but today, we have two universities in the Badagry division. It is time to pay back and re-elect governor Sanwo-Olu. “Let us use our votes as our investment for our future. Some have been in government for 16 years but they achieve nothing. Let us vote massively for the party. I urge you all to vote for the party and all its candidates. “We have some members of the PDP led by Badagry women leader and the AA who have come to join the APC because of the achievements of governor Sanwo-Olu.” Earlier in his goodwill message, Lagos West Senatorial leader, Chief Rabiu Oluwa urged the people to work together to ensure victory for the party. “This is our election and we must join hands to work for victory. We want you all to vote massively for our presidential candidate, Tinubu, re-elect Sanwo-Olu and other candidates of the party in the election. “Let us embark on a house to house and ward to ward Campaign. All our leaders in each council must intensify efforts to reach out to the nooks and crannies of the state to mobilise votes. We are aiming at four million votes. This is no time for quarrels. We have to work together as it is a collective responsibility.” APC women leader, Jumoke Okoya-Thomas tasked women to ensure they collect their PVC. “Women own the votes. We must ensure we collect our PVCs and vote for the candidates of the APC in the forthcoming election.” Arewa representative, Saadu Yusuf, pledged votes of the Hausa community in the state to the party. “We are going to work for the party and ensure we vote for the presidential candidate, Tinubu and his vice, Shetimma, Gov Sanwo-Olu and other candidates of the party.” Lagos APC youth leader, Dr Murtala Seriki, urged the youths to vote for candidates of the party. “The forthcoming election is for the youths. The youths will ensure Gov. Sanwo-Olu is re-elected. I have assured our party chairman that the youths will work and vote for the presidential candidate, Tinubu. “Therefore, we need to get our PVCs ready because there is no time for argument. It is no time for quarrels because there is no party that is more competent than APC. This is the time to go from house to house campaigning for the party.” The party candidates: Dr. (Mrs) Idiat Oluranti Adebule, Candidate for Lagos West Senatorial District; Lanre Ogunyemi, House of Representatives Candidate for Ojo Federal Constituency; Olatunji Surajdeen, Candidate for Ojo State Constituency II in the Lagos State House of Assembly; and Adebisi Olusegun Ege, Candidate for Ojo State Constituency I in the Lagos State House of Assembly were also present. 