Sani pledges to prioritise education in Kaduna Presidential candidate of New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), Rabiu Kwankwaso, is confident of winning the coming presidential election at the first ballot. The presidential candidate stated this at the North Central zonal rally of the party, yesterday, in Lafia, Nasarawa State, amid speculations of a possible re-run after the first ballot. Kwankwaso expressed confidence that Nigerians would elect him as the next president because of his track records in the offices held in the past.  The former governor of Kano State explained that he had no corruption case but landmark achievements as Kano governor for two tenures, minister and senator. He promised to deploy technology, improve on intelligence gathering and employ sufficient security personnel to address the current security challenges in the country, if elected president. The NNPP standard-bearer also promised to offer free education from primary to secondary level and ensure that traditional rulers are given constitutional roles to  help the government in improving the welfare of the people. “The Federal Government under me will empower and engage the youths to make them unavailable for crime.” “We will offer free medical services to pregnant women, nursing mothers as well as children to ensure a healthy society because health is wealth,” he added. According to a chieftain of the party, Buba Galadima, Nigerians are wise now because the people they trusted with positions of authority have failed them in last 24 years. MEANWHILE, the All Progressives Congress (APC) gubernatorial candidate in Kaduna State, Sen. Uba Sani, has promised to prioritise education, if voted into office. The governorship hopeful recalled that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) administration neglected public schools to become a shadow of their old selves in the 16 years that the party was in power. Sani, who reiterated this at Giwa town, yesterday, at the APC campaign rally, noted that Governor Nasir el-Rufai brought back the lost glory of public schools. The lawmaker pledged to continue from where el-Rufai stopped, especially in revamping education. “My priority is to make quality education accessible to the siblings of the common man because that will guarantee them a better future and improve society at large,” he added. Promising to empower religious leaders even before he is voted into office, the governorship hopeful noted that the clerics play a vital role in the reformation of society. “The projects that have been executed in Giwa wouldn’t have been possible without your support. I want you to continue supporting APC by voting our party at all levels in the coming election,” he added. Governor el-Rufai, at the rally, urged the people of Giwa to vote Sani as his successor and Dr. Hadiza Balarabe as deputy because “they were part of the team that enabled the transformation of Kaduna under my leadership.” 