Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State, yesterday, insisted that continuity in governance is necessary for the socio economic development of the state. Speaking during the fund raising dinner organised in honour of the governorship candidate of All Progressive Congress (APC), Dr Nasiru Gawuna, at the International Conference Centre, Abuja, Ganduje said he was able to execute several developmental projects within the last seven years due to his working knowledge of governance in Kano State as Deputy Governor, as well as Commissioner during the administration of Governors and Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso Dominic Oneya. Ganduje said his decision to support Gawuna during the primary was in tandem with his philosophy of continuity in government policies and programmes. Assuring that APC will sweep the poll in the state, he maintained that Gawuna fits the bill based on his pedigree as a hardworking, capable, loyal and dedicated administrator. According to him: “Many contestants showed their interest for the post of governorship, but we needed to apply dialogue and consultations. I’m sure some of them are here. Some wanted to win through discussion, some were given alternatives, some have been begged to step down and most of them did. “Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna is a two-time chairman of local government, (ALGON). He was a trusted commissioner of local government, like me. One cardinal point we used is the continuity of projects, because it is very important in governance: continuity in programmes, construction and articulation. So, that after building a solid foundation, you need continuity in to make a real legacy. “We have all our development issues that we have documented and without continuity things will be bastardised and you will find out that you are not going far. We believe in issue of continuity. I could remember when I was deputy governor during Kwankwaso’s administration, we planned all the projects and did the implementation together. So, by the time he left, I did not need anybody to tell me anything about any project, because I knew where to start. I knew why the project was conceived and I had no reason to abandon it. We started a kilometre three flyover, which we achieved about 20 to 30 per cent and I had to complete that flyover almost four years ago, consuming over N16 billion. That is the power of continuity. I could recall Kwankwaso started hydro electricity in Chalawa Dam, which he started in 2014. A multi billion naira project, he left it at 30 percent or so. Muhammadu Buhari, as a presidential aspirant, at that time, laid the foundation of that project and today that project is completed and Buhari is going to commission it on January 30. That is the power of continuity, and there are so many other things like that. “So, Dr Gawuna is fully aware of our programmes and our projects and we believe that is what makes legacy great – the issue of continuity. And that is the family we are breeding: continuity. We respect it and insha Allah, we will continue to build on that. “That was why we decided to make all necessary arrangements and consultations to ensure that Gawuna emerges the gubernatorial candidate and we believe that this is a tag team to beat. There is no other political party in Kano that has the credentials and we believe we will win insh Allah. “So, our today’s event is a fund-raising event as you know. Even though we running a government, the electoral laws provide for this kind of occasion. There is no doubt that we are in need of funds for logistics to conduct our elections in a very conducive environment and the candidate is already presented.” Gawuna pointed out that the experience he garnered in public service has provided him with the knowledge to hit the ground running when elected as Governor of Kano State. Expressing appreciation to his well-wishers for organising the event, he added that sustenance of developmental programmes in the state require continuity in governance. “My experience is crucial, I am prepared to give all I have learnt over the years to serve our state. “Our commitment is to ensure sustenance of good governance where everyone has equal opportunity to success through creation of an environment where businesses will thrive in Kano,” he added. The Director General of the campaign organisation, Engr. Sulaiman Bichi, called on well meaning citizens of the state to ensure the victory of the Gawuna/Garo joint ticket for the governorship of Kano State. The Plateau State Governor and the chairman of the Northern Governors Forum, Simon Lalong, described the occasion as historic, adding that it behooves the electorates to take Kano to the next level by voting for the Gawuna/Garo joint ticket. Senator Barau Jibrin, representing Kano North Senatorial District said the event was in tandem with practice in advanced democracies of the world, where stakeholders fund the campaigns of candidates vying for elective seats. He described Gawuna as one eminently qualified to administer the state due to his outstanding pedigree, having served as the chairman of the Nasarawa local council, and as deputy Governor of the state over the years. The dinner attracted the Minister of Defence Gen. Bashir Magashi, Minister of State for Works and Housing Alh. Umar El-Yakub, Members of the National Assembly, Speaker Kano House of Assembly Engr. Hamisu Chidari and members, Deputy National Chairman of APC Sen. Abubakar Kyari, State Chairman of the APC Alh. Abdullahi Abbas and members of business community. 