The All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), African Democratic Congress (ADC) and Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) have blamed underdevelopment in Enugu State on bad leadership. {ad} They stated this during a Town Hall meeting initiated by Daria Media in partnership with Coal City Elite Group, Arise TV and Afia TV for the governorship candidates in Enugu Saturday at De Base Event Centre, Enugu. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the governorship candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr Peter Mbah and his Labour Party (LP) counterpart, Mr Chijioke Edeoga were conspicuously absent. The governorship candidates of the three political parties said the past and present leaders in Enugu State had since the return of democracy in 1999 led the state to infrastructural decay and abject poverty. According to them, there is need for change to return the state to its lost glory built by the founding fathers like Michael Okpara, the former Premier of the Easter Region. The governorship candidate of ADC, Mr Kene Ogbodo noted that those in power since 1999 had only succeeded in impoverishing the people of the state. {ad} Ogbodo explained that those in affairs of the state lacked good leadership skills and willingness to tackle the challenges facing the state. “Leadership is about service, being visible and relating to the people being governed, but leaders in the state disconnected themselves from the poor masses. “These people in power, they are only good in recycling power among themselves, leaving those infrastructure that will better people’s lives,” he said. He said that if elected into power in the forthcoming election, his administration would change the old ways of doing things and be brought the required changes in Enugu. Speaking in same vein, Chris Agu, the PRP governorship candidate, regretted that those in power had destroyed what their founding fathers like Michael Okpara built and fought for. Agu said insecurity, lack of potable water, non payment of pension and teacher’s salaries had become so rampant in the state. He stressed that absence of the social amenities had led people of the state to hardship and suffering. {ad}