Bayern Munich manager Julian Nagelsmann said on Thursday the club “have an obligation” to sign another goalkeeper in winter, due to the absence of first-choice stopper Manuel Neuer. Speaking from Bayern’s winter training camp at the Qatar Aspire Academy in Doha, Nagelsmann spoke of the club’s “duty” to sign another keeper, with Neuer to miss most of 2023 with a broken leg. Nagelsmann said he has been impressed with Neuer’s backup Sven Ulreich at training, but felt another ‘keeper was necessary. “From my perspective, we have an obligation to sign another goalkeeper,” Nagelsmann told reporters. “(We need another keeper) regardless of whether he is the number one or the number two. “After that, we have some very young players, who are talented, but to come into a game at this stage of the season having never played a minute of professional football, would be a difficult situation.” Bayern sits four points clear at the top of the Bundesliga table and will meet Ligue 1 giants Paris Saint-Germain in the first leg of the Round of 16 of the Champions League on February 14. Nagelsmann acknowledged the difficulties in finding a quality goalkeeper at short notice, particularly during the season. “The goalkeeper market (in winter) is complex. There is no team which would gladly give up its first-choice goalkeeper. “There are not many players on the market – and you can’t just build one (a goalkeeper).” Bayern’s number one target remains Borussia Moenchengladbach goalkeeper Yann Sommer, despite Foals sporting director saying on Saturday “we won’t be giving up Yann Sommer. We told Bayern Munich that too.” Eintracht Frankfurt ‘keeper Kevin Trapp, who travelled to Qatar as part of the German side alongside Neuer, said on Thursday he was not concerned with media reports linking him to the Bavarian side. “Manuel Neuer is injured. He has not ended his career. We know what kind of goalkeeper Manuel is,” Trapp said. “I haven’t really paid much attention to it. I read it, of course, but we are in the middle of the season here.” Trapp said the speculation was “a nice sign, because it’s a confirmation of my performance” but said he was happy in Frankfurt – as he was in the summer when he knocked back an approach from Manchester United. “We had a similar conversation in the summer that I cancelled because we have something very nice planned here.” Frankfurt is fourth in the league and has made it through to the Champions League Round of 16 for the first time. They will face Italian Serie A leaders Napoli.