A lawmaker in the Lagos State House of Assembly representing Ojo Constituency 1, Victor Olusegun Akande, has said empowerment is the best way to end poverty in the country. Akande also recommended that the government provide soft loans for the indigents to provide succour in the midst of harsh economic crisis in the country. Speaking during “Hon. Victor Akande Empowerment Programme,” held at Ojo Town Hall, the lawmaker said the gesture was a way of thanking his constituency for allowing him to represent them in the assembly for eight years. Items that were distributed include, sewing machines, shoe-making machines, grinding machines, popcorn-making machines, welding machines, pumping machines, sealing machines, hair-drying machines, barbing clippers and generators He also urged government to see how it could provide soft loans for the indigents as a way of empowering them economically and reducing poverty in the country. Akande stated that rather than dole out money to the people, he felt that empowering them to be able to make their own money and be self sustained was the best thing to do. “About 300 people are being empowered today. Apart from the 12 items being distributed, we also have cash gifts ranging from N200,000 to N100,000 and N50,000 respectively,” he said. On selection criteria for beneficiaries, he said he threw it open to party members and residents of the community by reaching out to traditional rulers as well as religious leaders. “Leaders of our party nominated people, but it is not about the party alone. I selected people within the community, churches, mosques and others and they cut across all ethnic nationalities in Nigeria,” he said. Reacting to the insinuation that the majority of the beneficiaries were youths, he said: “I want to empower the youths so that they can empower the old ones. The government should empower the people and give them soft loans so that there would be an end to poverty in the country.” He also allayed the fears that some of the beneficiaries might just sell off the machines and squander the money. “We have trained some of the beneficiaries on how to use the items so that they would not sell them. And those who have not been trained are those that will engage in popcorn making or grinding business and we are giving them extra N30,000 cash to start off. They could stay in front of their houses and do the business,” he said. 