•We are providing necessary support for his family, says Varsity Details emerged, yesterday, why a 300-level student of the Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA), Joseph Olona, took his own life. The Guardian gathered that Olona, who hanged himself in his room, was the financial secretary of the department of Industrial Design. He was alleged to have mismanaged departmental dues in his possession. The deceased student, who owned a clothing brand called ‘Tart Angles,’ committed suicide on Saturday in his off-campus lodge in Aule area of Akure, after he was said to have slipped into depression over the issue. According to a close friend of the deceased, Enoch, trouble began for Joseph when the president of the department requested that he should send to him N100, 000 for a departmental project. Joseph allegedly sent the money through a digital bank app, Carbon, which debited the account even though the President did not receive the money. He said that the deceased was severely impacted by the circumstances after the bank ignored a number of emails regarding the transfer details for which he became isolated due to the issue. Enoch said the late Joseph had been under so much pressure that he had not been to lectures since the Christmas break. He said: “When school resumed for the 2021-2022 session, the treasurer of the department wasn’t around to receive payments for the year. Joseph decided to receive the yearly dues from students.
“On Saturday, I went to knock in around 8 a.m., but there was no response.” I had to go and check through his window, and I saw him hanging from the ceiling.” Reacting, the Head of Media and Protocols Unit of the institution, Mr. Adegbenro Adebanjo, who described the incident as unfortunate, said: “The Student Affairs Division is in touch with the family and providing support services. Counsellors are also providing needed support for students who may have been impacted by the sad development. The police authorities have also been duly informed. Our prayers are with the family at this difficult moment. May the Lord grant the family and friends of the deceased the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss.”