About 16,000 households affected by insurgency in Borno State have received relief materials donated by the Government of Saudi Arabia. The donation was the third to the victims by the Saudi authorities through the King Salman Humanitarian Aid Relief Centre (KSrelief). News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) distributed the relief materials to the beneficiaries. In his message at the distribution ceremony, yesterday, at Muna Kumburi IDPs camp, the Director General of NEMA, Ahmed Habib, noted that similar support was extended to victims in Yobe and Zamfara states. Habib, who was represented by the Acting Director of Planning, NEMA, Fatima Kassim, stated: “The centre had donated a baskets of relief materials to each of the 16,000 households in Borno for two cycles of 8,000 households each in different camps, in December 2022. “Each household is expected to have 59.8 kilogrammes basket of food made up of 25kg of rice, 25kg of beans, 4kg of Masavita flour, 2kg of tomato paste, 1kg of salt and 0.8kg of bouillon cubes and groundnut oil.” The DG assured that NEMA would effectively handle the distribution, in collaboration with the Borno State Emergency Management Agency, to ensure that it reached the beneficiaries. The first phase of the distribution was done in December 2022. He said the distribution would be carried out in four camps around Maiduguri namely: Muna Kumburi, Gongulon, Madinatu I and Madinatu II. These, according to him, were in addition to the earlier distribution in December 2022 to 8,000 households in El-Miskin, Doro, Ashiri, Shuwarin and Nganzai camps. While appreciating the King of Saudi Arabia, His Majesty, King Salman Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, and the Crown Prince/Prime Minister, Mohammad Bin Salman, for the donation through KSrelief, the NEMA DG said the gesture would go a long way in helping the IDPs and complementing the efforts of the Federal Government. He said: “Our partnership with KSrelief dates back to 2018. Between 2018 and 2021, the Centre donated relief items (food baskets) to some IDPs in Borno, Yobe and Zamfara states. “KSrelief has been very benevolent to the country. Interventions have been beneficial as evident from the positive testimonies from the IDPs.” 