Commandant General of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, (NSCDC), associate Professor Ahmed Audi, at the weekend laid to rest personnel of service ambushed and killed by terrorists last week while on the routine duty of protecting a mining site in Birnin Gwari Local Government Area, (LGA), of Kaduna State. Audi who paid his last respect to the slain personnel at a lying-in-state ceremony in Kaduna where their remains were laid to rest after being handed over to their families and loved ones, he said the deceased are “heroes never to be forgotten”. Condoling their families, the CG expressed sadness over the unfortunate incident and prayed for the repose of their soul “They died in active service; they fought a good fight with the last drop of blood in their veins to safeguard the country. Although the loss is painful and the tears are much, God knows best “We cannot question God; therefore, let us live right, be in peace, love and harmony with our fellow men because one day, all of us will give account to God.” Represented by the Commandant, Kaduna Command, Idris Adah, the CG praised the efforts of the gallant officers who lost their lives in defence of the country describing them as committed and dedicated members of the Corps who will be greatly missed by colleagues and friends at work. National prayers and mourning observed for the slain at the NSCDC headquarters in Abuja. PHOTO: Tina Abeku “They paid the supreme price for the nation, they died for us, they are our Heroes and we shall always remember them. “The world is saddened, the President and Commander in Chief are saddened, Officers and men of the Corps are also saddened. “What has happened has happened, we, however, look unto God, and pray for forgiveness of their sins and for acceptance on the last day,” he said. While thanking President Muhammadu Buhari for supporting the corps during its period of grief, Audi assures families and the next of kin of the deceased of the timely dispatch of benefits accruable to them. According to Audi, “Mr President’s condolence message motivated us greatly; it renewed our strength and rekindled our hope that we are not alone. “This means a lot to us as a service and we are grateful for the support we are getting from the presidency and we feel proud serving the nation.” Two of the seven killed had earlier been buried according to Islamic rites, one was moved to Benue, his hometown while the remaining four were laid to rest in Kaduna Earlier, a national prayer was observed for the slain officers at the NSCDC national headquarters in Abuja.