Adebule rallies women, youths’ support for APC 
The campaign council of Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), yesterday, urged Lagosians to be abreast of the newly-introduced Bimodal Voters Accreditation System (BVAS) and electoral offences relating to the conduct of elections.  Lagos APC Chairman, Pastor Cornelius Ojelabi, said the programme was organised to educate traders on the electoral laws and mode of voting, as well as how to vote using the BVAS
 
According to him, “this is a continuation of our engagement with the people. We are educating them on the mode of voting.” Ojelabi said the state governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, had demonstrated good governance in all ramifications beyond expectation, adding that as the election day is fast approaching, the steps taken by the party are necessary.
  
Besides, Director, Mobilisation, Lagos State Campaign Council, Maruf Akinderu-Fatai, while addressing journalists, said: “This is a way to indirectly reach out to the people at the grassroots. This is sensitisation for the traders.” SIMILARLY, the APC candidate for Lagos West Senatorial District, Dr. Idiat Adebule, yesterday, urged women and youths to vote en-masse for the party’s candidates in the forthcoming elections. Adebule, who spoke during a stakeholders’ meeting with non-indigenes, artisans, traders and youths in Ajeromi-Ifelodun Local Council and Ifelodun Local Council Development Area (LCDA), promised to take the developmental programmes up from where the outgoing senator representing the district, Solomon Olamilekan, stops. According to her, more empowerment programmes would be introduced for women to make them self-sustained. She, therefore, solicited support for women politicians to excel, vowing to be a good representation of the womenfolk if elected. Adebule, who said there would be training for artisans on how to improve their skills and make more income, however, promised to equip youths with the necessary technical know-how to give them an advantage in the labour market. Chairman of Ajeromi-Ifelodun Local Council, Adekunle Abdulfatai Ayoola, appealed to the royal fathers to educate the youths on voting for the right candidates. He said that the APC presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu and all other party’s candidates would deliver dividends of democracy to the youths. Chairman of Ifelodun LCDA, Olufemi Okeowo, described Adebule as the best woman to represent the district. He said her experience would be needed to move the district forward if elected. He urged traders and artisans to mobilise members to vote for her and other APC candidates.