•‘Secret approvals of pump price a departure from PIA objectives’
• Marketers seek full deregulation For the second time in about seven months, the Federal Government again acceded to arm-twisting antics of marketers, yesterday, by quietly approving an increment in the pump price of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), otherwise known as petrol.  Okwuosa expressed concern over lax regulation in that sector, stressing that the price control has been hijacked.
  
He equally decried the way the fuel subsidy regime has been handled in recent times, saying the process is not clear. According to him, increasing the pump price quietly, despite the subsidy in place, shows lack of transparency.
   
“We need, as a matter of urgency, deregulation of the oil sector. Piecemeal deregulation and cutting secret deals will not solve the problem. With hindsight, we would have thought that the new NNPC is commercially driven and will be anchored on transparency and accountability. What we are seeing is a sham whereby NNPC is still being teleguided by the Federal Government,” Okwuosa said.
  
He urged the government and NNPC to fix their inefficiency and lacklustre regulation, adding that there is need for succour for the masses.
   
Managing Partner, BBH Consulting, Madaki Ameh, said the management of the subsidy on PMS has been quite inept and inefficient.
  
“There is no alternative to full deregulation of the downstream sector of the oil and gas industry. The current hide and seek approach, which is based on half-truths and outright falsehood, is totally unsustainable. No country borrows money to subsidise consumption. But in Nigeria, nothing makes sense in the manner the economy is managed or mismanaged under this government,” he said.
     
The rising cost of PMS is mainly boosted by the devaluation of the naira, the Chief Executive Officer of Dairy Hills Limited, Kelvin Emmanuel, said. He argued that the current scarcity is proof that a weak naira contributes 70 per cent to inflation in Nigeria.
   
“Asking Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) to sell PMS at below their cost price from the depots in Lagos (which is N235-N240 per liter), at the regulated price of N165 is the reason why the two highest grossing items on the 2023 Appropriation Act are: debt servicing on consolidated debt, under-recovery for petrol subsidy,” he explained.
THIS came as the organised labour movement, once again, reiterated its unequivocal opposition to removal of petrol subsidy.	 
  
National President of the Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria (ASCSN), Dr. Tommy Okon, berated the government over the move, saying labour will defend the interests of the working class once the pronouncement is made.	  
   
“This is a worrying situation indeed. Nigerians did not enjoy the Christmas and New Year celebrations because the price of petrol was above the reach of the common man. Apart from Abuja and Lagos, the pump price of petrol was above N250 per litre in most places.
   “With inflation rising and salaries remaining stagnant, what is left for Nigerian workers? Government has not reviewed the wage upward and inflation is eroding the small money they have.
  
“Cheap petrol makes transportation to and from work easier a little bit. Government now wants to take that away and replace it with nothing? No! That is not acceptable. Why is the government not talking about palliatives for the workers before contemplating removal of the subsidy? Labour will not be quiet over the matter,” he stated.  
     
Emmanuel maintained that the most viable solution to petrol scarcity is fast-tracking launch of the commercial refinery in Lagos, saying at a full capacity utilisation of 650,000 barrels per day, it will refine 50 million litres daily, representing 142 per cent of the real daily consumption in Nigeria.
  
He also submitted that the politicisation of petrol subsidy proves that the Buhari-led Federal Government lacks tact in dealing with the subsidy crisis. 