Over 40 countries and thousands of oil and gas experts are billed to gather in Lagos to discuss emerging issues in the oil and gas sector amidst energy transition.
The stakeholders would converge at the seventh edition of the sub-Saharan Africa International Petroleum Exhibition and Conference (SAIPEC), hosted by the Petroleum Technology Association of Nigeria (PETAN). Amidst dwindling investment and push from fossil fuel, the programme is expected to foster networking and partnership opportunities that would drive regional collaborations through a weeklong programme of activities, the organisers said in release. With delegations, speakers and organisations attending from over 40 countries across sub-Saharan Africa and beyond, including Uganda, Ghana, Gambia, Senegal, Angola, Tanzania, Niger, Liberia, Kenya, Namibia, Somalia and Mozambique, PETAN Chair, Nik Odinuwe said the event would set precedence for honest debate and the drive for stakeholders to see the highlighted abundance of business opportunities in the oil and gas industry in sub- Saharan Africa and the global energy industry. Odinuwe, who believes that discussions and strategic collaborations don’t end at the conference, said the conference would lead to developmental progress. “The massive turnout of stakeholders, including International Oil Companies (IOCs), National Oil Companies (NOCs), regulators, service providers, the academia and other stakeholders at SAIPEC yearly, suggests it is the biggest platform that links stakeholders to the global energy industry and markets. The testimonies are there to see, and that is why we have astronomical numbers attending yearly,” he said. An African Content Series seminar, hosted by Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) and PETAN, would precede the event with a select number of NOCs, regulators, governments and private sector representatives expected to showcase local content best practices and provide an overview of Africa’s hydrocarbon resource base. The participants would also dwell on the factors that lead to the introduction of local content in the energy, oil and gas industry. The main strategic conference programme would follow on 14th February over three days, placing emphasis on the future of the energy, oil, and gas industry, regional collaboration and country specific showcases, the energy transition, diversity, equality and inclusivity and youth empowerment. 