 Dewy Makeup DANESSA MYRICKS As we all know, the beauty industry is always changing and evolving. Every year, new makeup trends emerge, allowing makeup artists and beauty enthusiasts to express their creativity and explore new looks. With 2023 on the horizon, there are some exciting makeup trends to look out for.   The No Makeup Look One trend that is sure to be popular in 2023 is the “no makeup” makeup look. This look is all about creating a natural and effortless look, while still accentuating your features. It focuses on enhancing the features you already have, rather than completely transforming them by using minimal makeup, such as a light foundation, subtle contouring and highlighting, and a few coats of mascara. It is perfect for those who want to look put-together while still keeping a minimalistic and natural look. To achieve this look, the focus should be on skin care and subtle makeup products. Start by creating a flawless base with a light foundation and concealer, followed by a light dusting of blush, bronzer, and highlighter. When it comes to eyes, use a light wash of eyeshadow for a natural look, and finish off with a few coats of mascara. For lips, keep it simple with a lip balm or a light tinted lip balm. Bold eye look photo DANESSA MYRICKS Bold Eyes Another trend that is likely to be popular in 2023 is the “bold eye” look. This look is all about making a statement with a bold eye look. It can be achieved with bright eyeshadows, colourful eyeliners, and dramatic mascara. We expect the use of green and blue hues to go viral in eye makeup. These colours are perfect for creating a unique look that will make you stand out. Green and blue shadows can be used to create smoky, dramatic looks, or they can be kept subtle and used to create a more natural look. Green and blue hues are perfect for brightening up the eyes, and they look great when paired with neutral colours like browns and beiges. To create a bold eye look, start by choosing one colour to focus on. Apply a light wash of this colour all over the lid and then build up the intensity in the crease and outer corner of the eye. Add a coloured eyeliner and mascara to bring out the eyes even more. For those who want to go even bolder, try experimenting with false lashes. Hani Sidow’s completed ‘no makeup makeup’ look. Photograph- Hani Sidow Glowy You should also look out for the “glowy” look in 2023. This trend focuses on creating a dewy and glowing complexion. To achieve this look, focus on using products that will give the skin a luminous and hydrated look. Start with a light foundation and concealer, followed by a strobing cream or highlighter. For the cheeks, use a light blush and bronzer to give the skin a natural flush. Finish off with a light dusting of setting powder to lock in the look. Natural Makeup Finally, “natural” makeup is sure to be popular in 2023. This look involves using only natural products and ingredients to create a natural, glowing complexion. To achieve this look, opt for mineral-based foundations and concealers, and use a light hand when applying your makeup. This look is great for those who want to achieve a natural, healthy glow. These are just a few of the makeup trends to look out for in 2023. With the beauty industry constantly evolving, there are sure to be even more exciting makeup trends to come. From natural looks to bold statements, 2023 is sure to be an exciting year for makeup looks.