Download logo Today, President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi met with Prime Minister, Dr. Moustafa Madbouly, Minister of Finance, Dr. Mohamed Maait, and Minister of Education and Technical Education, Dr. Reda Hegazy.  The Spokesman for the Presidency said the meeting followed-up on the development of the education system and its fundamental aspects in Egypt. President El-Sisi stressed the need to focus on developing human resources, improving the teachers’ system, and expanding the establishment of new distinguished schools. This shall take place within the framework of the state’s strategic and firm orientation toward supporting investment in education so as to contribute to building the Egyptian character from birth until university education, with the aim of establishing a knowledgeable as well as scientifically- and culturally-savvy generation. The President gave directives to enhance the activities of the ministry of education, with regard to expanding Applied Technology Schools and increasing societal awareness regarding their importance. He noted that these schools constitute a successful model for specialized schools, which rely on cooperation with the private sector to fulfil its needs for specialized technical cadres, particularly in the communications and IT fields. These areas represent a fundamental element in the industry and development process, in addition to crafts. Dr. Hegazy reviewed the Ministry of Education and Technical Education’s plans for the comprehensive modernization of Egypt's basic education system in its various components, particularly the human resource development of educators, as well as providing an appropriate student-teacher ratio and training and qualifying school principals. This is in addition to the development of curricula in the different levels of education. The Minister of Education offered an overview of the ministry's plan to improve the school system and establish new schools nationwide, particularly Egypt's Distinguished Schools, which operate on a full-day system. This is in addition to the 20 International Public Schools, IPS, in all governorate, as well as the Nile Schools. Dr. Hegazy also reviewed the ministry's plans to market its degree internally and externally in coordination with international academic bodies specialized in granting relevant credits. These bodies will also train teachers and those in charge of the educational process in these schools. The ministry’s plan also covered the establishment of more Egyptian-Japanese schools in accordance with the Japanese accreditation standards, which are based on delivering the fully-integrated education Takatsu. This will come along with the establishment of more Schools of Applied Technology to contribute to delivering sophisticated and advanced technical education so as to meet the needs of the industry and development, in cooperation between the state and the private sector. This shall support the state's efforts to achieve the optimal investment of the human capital that Egypt is rich in, and quality the outstanding graduates of these schools to work abroad in an array of fields. The President was also briefed on the ministry of education’s efforts to establish, develop and upgrade the efficiency of educational buildings nationwide, in coordination with each of the various directorates of education, as well as the “Decent Life” initiative for the development of rural Egyptian villages. The President gave directives for the ministry to hold periodic reviews of the educational buildings and facilities across the republic. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of The Presidency, The Arab Republic of Egypt.