The Minister of Transportation, Mu’azu Jaji Sambo, has pledged the support of the Ministry to the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) on its initiatives on staff welfare. Sambo made the pledged at the 2022 Year Long Service/Merit Award of the Nigerian Ports Authority held in Lagos on Saturday. The minister further congratulated awardees and the entire workers of the NPA for their teamwork and contributions to the successes recorded so far. “Let me pledge to you all that the ministry under my watch will continue to provide unflinching support for all initiatives of the Authority’s management geared towards the promotion of staff welfare. “As someone who loves to identify with human virtues, I was highly elated when I received the invitation from the management of the Nigerian Ports Authority to be part of this noble effort,’’ he said. He acknowledged the employees who had dedicated twenty years of their lives to the service of the country through the NPA as well as those in merit category who accomplished exceptional feats through uncommon dutifulness. Sambo recalled that during his maiden visit to NPA, he commended the managing director for his performance and was glad that he had not relented in his efforts, especially in the aspect of staff welfare. He noted the Managing Director’s unprecedented performance in revenue generation and remittance. “I recall he had solicited my backing and support to fast track the processes and procedures necessary for the implementation of staff salary increase. “‘’I immediately acceded to it, and today I am delighted it has been achieved,” he said. Sambo added that the celebration demonstrated that the managing director and his team understood that organisations which wanted to create and sustain superior performance must put people first. Earlier, the MD, NPA, Mr Mohammed Bello-Koko, thanked the Federal Government for their support toward ensuring the increment of staff salaries. Bello-Koko said equipping the human capital resources to be the best had been one of the overriding objectives of the management. He added that the agency would make good move in this noble cause. “Our drive towards ensuring 100 per cent occupational health and safety for our staff which has resulted in the ISO certification of Calabar and Onne ports, and we are not relenting on it,” Bello-Koko said. Present also at the event included the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha; the Lagos State Governor, represented by the Lagos State Commissioner for Transport, Dr Frederic Oladeinde and the Minister of Labour, Dr Chris Ngige. Others included the Minister of State for Health, Hon. Ekumankama Joseph Nkama,;Honourable Minister of State for Transportation, Mr Ademola Adegoroye among others. The high point of the event was the presentation of awards to the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari GCFR, the SGF, and the Award of Recognition for Quality Maritime Leadership to the Minister of Transportation. 