Lagos State Labour Party (LP) Chairman, Dayo Ekong, yesterday, lamented alleged intimidation, oppression and attacks of their members by  opposition parties in the state, warning that it will engage legal intervention if such do not cease.  She alleged that anyone that is championing any faction in the party, when the election is just a few weeks away, is a mole, adding that the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) and Trade Union Congress (TUC) are already working with the party.
  
“Everything is being put in place to have a unified house. We will employ everything that it takes to reach out to aggrieved members.
“Our presidential candidate, Peter Obi, is a man of peace and that is why oppressing and attacking LP members have to stop. The air is big enough for all birds to fly. It’s important to put a stop to all these harassments and allow peace to reign. If we are not disturbing you, why are you attacking us? We have a legal system that works and we will make sure that nobody oppresses any of our members anymore.”
 
Ekong urged members who are finding it difficult to collect their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) to reach out to the party for assistance.
“We have assigned people to help those who are having difficulty in collecting their PVCs. We have helped a lot of people and we are going to continue to help as many people as possible.”
She expressed optimism that if Obi emerges as the president, there would be sanity in the security sector of the country, urging Nigerians to come together and deliver the country from economic and security holocaust.
  
“If PO (Obi) emerges as president, there will be a breadth of hope. Sanity will be restored in the security and economic sectors. It’s sad that in some areas of the country, a lot of people are apprehensive about going to bed at night, because they are not sure of what will happen in the morning.   
“PO’s emergence will signal a new dispensation and dawn for the country, where things would work the way they ought to, and there will be an assurance of hope for all. I assure the youths, things will be better in the education sector. They will no longer use seven years to study a course of three or four years.”