Sir: “When two elephants fight, the grass suffers”. This has, over the years, become a lot of helpless students in the country’s universities who cannot afford the high tuition fees in private universities, let alone travelling overseas for education, but accepted their fates in the public schools. Absolutely, nothing is wrong with attending public schools except some shortfalls and extremisms. Prominent among them is the strike action always embarked upon at every election year by the umbrella body of lecturers; Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) which makes public schools look unserious. Going through the litany of ASUU demands, all things being equal, the demands are germane as no investment on education is superfluous, however, it is characterized with traitorous lacuna. To start with, the 2022 total budget of the country stands at N17.13 trillion from which N923.79 billion is allotted to the education sector. Interestingly, ASUU is made up of intellectuals that understand and teach checks and balances. Now, in Nigeria’s education sector, there are four levels of education, namely: i) Early childhood (pre-primary); ii) Basic Education (9 years) – comprising Primary and Junior Secondary Education, which is compulsory and free; iii) Senior Secondary Education; and iv) Tertiary Education. Under tertiary education alone, there are three categories, namely; universities, colleges of education and polytechnics. By the above categorization, annual budgets on education must always split equitably to take care of the four levels. And by the clause ‘compulsory and free’ on the basic education, more funds must certainly be voted to effectively implement the policy. Of course, by prudence and precedence, investing in the first three levels is very critical as they are pillars for a sound tertiary education which is the fourth one. So, whereas all levels are important, basic education demands added attention, and cannot be ignored. Education is just one out of many sectors demanding critical attention from the treasury, hence, scaling up preference based on priorities remains the only option vis-à-vis meagre resources. Thus, ASUU is under duty to first consider the nation’s aggregate budget, followed by allocation to the education ministry, before tertiary institution which includes two other categories aforesaid. Understanding this template will give insight and bring about implementable agreements for sustainable activities. Strikes in public schools do more harm than good to society, and should be vetoed. It must be discouraged. For instance, when academic activities eventually resume after long strikes, there’s a likelihood of crash programmes and subverting morale thereby giving room for deficiencies. Ultimately, society suffers. It’s unacceptable to destroy society under any guise. Emphatically, public schools should not be used for power tussles, as globally, no school anywhere has everything on ground, and everyone that attained enviable heights is through a long-term plan, not hostility. • Carl Umegboro, ACIArb, is a public affairs analyst and social advocate (08023184542-SMS only) 