A man’s body consists of so many systems. There is the blood network. There are the lungs. There is the nervous system. There is the brain. But these systems are neither understood nor appreciated by the generality of men. The field of medicine is one of the very few ways in which men attempt to deal with the disease. And there are so many branches of healing, and there are so many different “healers.” Yes the world of today is beset by a multitude of diseases. Diseases have ravaged men since time immemorial, ever since the time Jesus Christ was on earth. Then, and even now, disease has clamped its tenacious talons and ferocious claws in the lives of so many people. Jesus was continually surrounded by sick persons, the blind, the halt and the lame. And what happened?  Jesus performed many miracles that were so spectacular, that He often healed diseases from a distance, merely by pronouncing the “healing word.” According to the Bible: “When Jesus was entered into Capernaum, there came unto him a centurion, beseeching him, And saying, Lord, my servant lieth at home sick of the palsy, grievously tormented. And Jesus saith unto him, I will come and heal him. The centurion answered and said, Lord I am not worthy that thou should come under my roof: but speak the word only, “and my servant shall be healed. For I am a man under authority, having soldiers under me: and I say to this man, Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and he cometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it. When Jesus heard it he marveled, and said to them that followed, Verily I say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel, And Jesus saith unto the centurion, Go thy way; and as thou hast believed, so be it done unto thee. And his servant was healed in the selfsame hour.” (Matthew 8: 8-11, excerpted). Now reader, I put it to you that there have existed since millennia, persons who have possessed in various degrees this long-sought after and precious healing power. These people are able to transmit healing to their fellow beings. Arguably Moses Orimolade was a very powerful prophet. Also, Temitope Bamidele Joshua of the Synagogue Church of All Nations, Lagos, was one of such men. So was Simeon Bilewu Oshoffa, (founder of The Celestial Church of Christ Worldwide). And in the world even of today, there are many of such healers. And so it goes on. But reader, what has been the attitude of men towards past and present healers? What is the attitude towards medicine men and priests? Any time a person possesses a gift (such as healing) that is different, or over and above) those of his fellow men, the gifted one is in many cases distrusted, derided, mocked and persecuted by persons who are unwilling to lose their influence and power to these “outsiders.”Let us consider what happened to Christ at the beginning of His ministry. Again, according to the Bible: “And when he was come into his own country, he taught them in their synagogue, insomuch that they were astonished, and said, Whence hath this man this wisdom, and these mighty works? Is not this the carpenter’s son? Is not his mother called Mary? And his brethren James and Joses, and Simon, and Judas? And his sisters, are they not all with us? Whence then hath this man all these things? And they were offended in him. But Jesus said unto them, A prophet is not without honour, save in his own country, and in his own house. And he did not do many mighty works there because of their unbelief.
(Matt 13: 53-58). Now, let us pause a while to examine more closely this nature of  “natural healing,” which healing usually attracts the greater amount of suspicion, and its practitioners are often accused of being fraudulent. Let us try to explain how these conceptions (and misconceptions) arise. Although there are healings of so many variations, it must be realized that a normal human body has an all en-compassing  magnetic field, and lines of force permeate this human body in so many paths and directions. These magnetic fields run in certain pathways to and from the head, through the body and to the feet. These lines of energy are called the body’s “meridians,” and the points that these radiations manifest in bundles at certain points in the body, such as the throat, neck, chest and feet. The places where these radiations congregate are known as the body’s “chakras.” And when the body is healthy this network of radiations have certain forms and colours that can be recognized (seen and or felt) by the trained nature doctor (or naturopath). When the magnetic lines of force are dis-coloured and distorted for any of many a reason, then invariably a state of imbaance, (or a diseased condition) is said to have set in. Yes, it is repeated here that when the network of radiations is sharply compromised, a state of “disease” is said to have set in. The healer, using the strength of his own body’s healthy magnetic field  In addition, the healer can by pass.ing his hands in and around the unhealthy magnetic field of the patient, in a particular way, gradually bring about the healing to the patient. From these explanations it must be seen that the naturopath (nature doctor) cannot just be “any man,” but that he must have been “hand-picked” by Nature (and destiny) to perform such amazing tasks. Yes, he is hand-picked and nurtured by the inscrutable forces of Destiny, and is successful as a healer or a surgeon of the soul, for his own particular community. Thus it is now explained how the healers in the villages work. All the way, from birth to death, many are born into the medical “natural medical” practices of their ancestors. And this compartment (department) of healing is known as traditional or alternative medicine. Persons of this nature are described as having “healing – hands” and they can go into the bushes and forests overnight where they “hear” or are directed to pick up certain particular “herbs.” The “voices” which the healers hear are the voices of “spiritual entities” which pair alongside the earthly healers in a most marvelous “give-and-take, and the leaves, plants or roots, in combination with other herbs, are able to solve any of many a troublesome ailment, even diseases that seem “untreatable,” by regular medical sciences. It can be seen that there should be no controversy or struggle between orthodox and traditional medicine. The only difference between the two types of medicine lies in their method of approach. The fact is that  both groups in their treatments, even make a  profuse use  of plants, herbs, roots and leaves, in addition to profuse prayer. Let us now take a step backwards to explain the healing prowess of a man such as a Charles Ayo Dada, (who is the subject of this present essay). Dada is a young man working largely in the Lagos environs, who has positioned himself as being a leader in this field of “traditional” or “alternate” (natural) medicine. Dada uses his “healing-hands” to “correct” the dissonances or other impurities that exist in the magnetic fields (auras) of his patients. Yes, Dada cleans out, and filters away the irregularities in the aura, irregularities that have arisen from bad eating habits,  extending to the nurturing of foul and evil thoughts, and jealousies, for Dada explains that many diseases and even cancers arise from the false thought processes of many individuals, their hatreds and jealousies, and other false attitudes to life. Thus by using a combination of herbs, hones, salt and especially crystals and other precious stones, this nature of healing ability exists in specified human beings. In such human beings it ends up being said by onlookers and it is stated in hushed and whispered tones that “he (or she) is a healer,” and is gifted with “healing hands.” Such is the case of Charles Ayo Dada. Charles Ayo Dada is a very colourful personality, a graduate of Accountancy from the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile- Ife, who switched his focus after his graduation from accountancy to being a publisher, collector and dealer in art works, owning an art gallery in the Ikeja area of Lagos specifically housing drawings, painting and sculptures. Dada is also a consummate writer of great ability, having authored a number of commendable books, including books on poetry such as “The Ghost of Zina,” and “The Sage.” He has also written an excellent drama (play) titled “The King’s Clarion Call.” A visitor to Dada’s house and office will be struck by the multiplicity of paintings, drawings, crystals, sculptures and other artifacts that adorn his walls and rooms. Thus Dada has his hands into several pies: art, exhibitions, trading, farming and healing. Dada regularly gives lectures about health, living and disease to disparate audiences. He has made a successful practice in all these different genres, and silently and inconspicuously, he has discovered the art of healing which he practices in his office and his clinic (healing home) situated at 30 Mohammed Street, Santos Estate Akowonjo, Lagos. Because of the diversity of his gifts, Dada can be rightly described as being a Rennaisance man ( a genius), in a similar mould to other past gifted individuals such as   Leonardo da Vinci, Michelangelo or Raphael, men  who with open hands pandered  to the needs of their various communities. Dada’s healing art revolves around the theory that it is Nature that heals, and that it is Almighty God that has placed at man’s disposal the herbs, condiments and remedies that can prevent or take care of diseases. Dada is an extremely busy man, and is a spiritualist whose every thought is to be pleasing to Almighty God. The books he reads are solemn and creative, and they posit that a man must live in such a way as to be pleasing to his Creator. Thus Dada  is deeply engrossed in the study of Palmistry (the study of the lines on the palm). His basic faith is encapsulated by a firm belief in the teachings of Abd ru shin, the greatest teacher, prophet and mentor of the present age, whose teachings are laid down in his “Book of Truths” titled “The Grail Message,” “In the Light of Truth. Dada gives lectures to varied packed audiences in the state where he discusses about health and disease, and to cap it all, Dada performs “healing sessions” in his “Healing Home” aptly named “The Lighthouse Healing Home,” at Akowonjo, in Lagos.