For stable power supply, Ikeja Electric Plc (IE) has partnered with the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) to protect its infrastructure. During a meeting yesterday with Lagos State NSCDC Command, Head, Legal and Regulatory, IE, Babatunde Osadare, commended the organisation and police for their support in safeguarding the utility firm’s equipment from unwholesome activities of vandals and effecting arrests and prosecutions as and when due. Osadare reminded NSCDC that vandalism remains on the increase, hence urgent intervention was needed. He stated that the nefarious activities were sabotaging the company’s efforts to deliver efficiently. The IE official hinted that the affected communities might experience longer outage due to activities of vandals. According to him, Ikeja Electric is looking forward to a more robust working relationship with law enforcement agencies and community associations this year, especially on vandalism, Illegal connections, energy theft and other illicit activities within its coverage areas. Osadare stated that the company was taking steps to meter customers, just as he expressed concern about the high incidence of meter by-pass, illegal connection or reconnection, as well as acts that sabotage proper energy accounting and efficient service delivery. He regretted that the issues are so grave that they rob the value chain of critical revenue needed to effectively drive the power sector. Also speaking, IE’s Chief Security Officer, Michael Igbodipe, who observed that vandalism of electricity infrastructure was thriving due to the ready market for the stolen items, charged stakeholders to contain racketeers for meaningful result to be achieved. He suggested that while the power firm continues to sensitise stakeholders, there was need for more collaboration with security agencies to identify those trading in vandalised electricity assets, including corporate organisations, which provide the platform and support for the trade. While assuring customers of IE’s commitment to excellent customer experience, Igbodipe advised community leaders and consumers to take ownership of electrical facilities in their domains and protect them against vandalism. Responding, Lagos State Commandant of NSCDC, Edenabu Okoro Eweka, while thanking the IE team, supported the crusade to jealously guard electricity infrastructure, stating that one of the core mandates of the corps was to ensure safety of critical assets across the length and breadth of the country. 