Uranse, a solutions services company with its primary focus on air freight to and from Nigeria, has over the last three years metamorphosed into a brand with a rising high pedigree for securing fast and safe delivery of packages; one which is viewed by errand senders as the core in the efficient delivery system. This, no doubt, has removed apprehension from the latter, thereby allowing them to fully concentrate on executing their personal and business tasks. The idea of Uranse was conceived in 2018 in Texas, U.S., stemming from a conversation between Mr. Afolami Makinde and Mr. Sadiq Ribadu over the challenges Diasporians faced in sending small packages to Nigeria from the U.S. and vice-versa. In 2019, four partners came together to finally birth Uranse and by 2020, the Board of Directors had risen to seven namely; Tokunbo Olanrewaju, Afolami Makinde, Sadia Ribadu, Vincent Adeyemi, Funlola Olarenwaju, Ubong Nta and Segun Farohunbi. Uranse’s team of seasoned professionals work in line with international standards and best practices, delivering world-class services hinged on the company’s core values of integrity, trust, honesty, teamwork and commitment to customers. According to Makinde, Uranse has always prided itself in practicing ‘customer first’ model. He added: “This model has been to guarantee dependable services and engender trust in a Nigerian society that is sadly lacking in customer satisfaction in those categories. In the last three years, we are proud to say our customers have been content and happy with the brand. We have also made it possible for those in Nigeria to reach a wider audience in the diaspora with their supplies, thereby contributing meaningfully to the expansion and growth of local businesses.” Uranse plies its trade under the standard option for international deliveries and the express delivery, where time sensitive packages are successfully shipped to the designated destinations. For Ribadu, “although air freight i.e. air shipping is certainly the fastest and most secure way of sending packages, cargos, it is not bereft of challenges as well.” He stressed: “Being able to project potential issues, proffer standby solutions including backups, preventive measures, having an in-depth knowledge of the dynamics, intricacies of the air freight process including but not limited to cargo routes, schedules, customs clearance steps, among others, is vital for success in this line of business. This we know down to the letter at Uranse and deploy same with proper planning and coordination when executing tasks.” Uranse acts as the bridge linking people in Nigeria and in the Diaspora whether on a personal or business level via the packages sent or received. It is one of the few proudly international brands with Nigerians at the helm of affairs, working diligently to change the narrative and make a difference in the lives of people positively. The network of trusted contacts in the destination areas, solid communication chain established in the process from start to finish among relevant parties, the untainted reputation for optimal service delivery and customer satisfaction mantra, has contributed to its fast rise in the air freight terrain.