Download logo Today, President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi met with Prime Minister Moustafa Madbouly, Minister of Agriculture and Land Reclamation Al Sayed Al Qaseer, Director General of the National Service Projects Authority of the Armed Forces Major General Walid Abul-Magd and Executive Director of the Future of Egypt for Sustainable Development Authority Colonel Pilot Bahaa El-Ghannam.  The Spokesman for the Presidency said the meeting followed- up on the development of the Egyptian agricultural export system. The minister of agriculture presented the unprecedented development in the Egyptian agricultural export system, particularly the governance of export procedures and the new coding system that is applied to Egyptian agricultural exports to track and tighten control over them from export farms to importing countries. This is carried out under the supervision of the regulatory authorities, while providing farmers and exporters with all technical guidance related to the requirements of good agricultural practices in accordance with the highest internationally applied environmental export standards. This is in addition to using the best seedlings of the varieties required globally and providing the necessary laboratory services to guarantee their safety. This was reflected in the increase in the Egyptian agricultural crops exports and the opening of new markets. Exports in 2022 reached about 6.43 million tons to nearly 160 countries, achieving export revenues of about $ 3.3 billion. The President gave directives to strictly adhere to the provisions of control over the Egyptian agricultural exports to produce high quality export crops, with exclusive reliance on entities affiliated with the coding system by the agricultural quarantine. He also gave directives to address any violation in this context and to apply the standards of importing countries for all the Egyptian agricultural crops. The meeting also touched on efforts to develop livestock, through the national program for distributing thousands of heads of highly productive livestock to farmers. The main objective is to improve the conditions of the farmers and support them economically, in coordination among the relevant ministries, the National Service Projects Authority, the banking sector and civil society organizations. The  President stressed the importance of following-up on the conditions of farmers and small breeders on a regular basis and providing them with the necessary technical support and veterinary care for livestock, also intensifying the guiding role for all beneficiaries of the national livestock distribution program. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of The Presidency, The Arab Republic of Egypt.