Leaders of African nations have been urged to prioritize teaching digital skills education as 2023 gets on track in order to create the kind of workforce that will propel the development of the continent. The founder and CEO of GetBundi, Osita Oparaugo, made the statement on Tuesday while speaking with journalists in Lagos. He said that if the problem with the shortage of digitally skilled workers was not resolved right away, it would harm Africa’s economic growth. He argued that having digital skills is essential for everyone in the twenty-first century, particularly in Africa. To buttress this point, the GetBundi founder cited a study by the International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member of the World Bank Group, which found that 230 million jobs across Africa would require some level of digital skills by 2030, translating to a potential for 650 million training opportunities and an estimated $130 billion market. READ MORE: STEM learning will fast-track Africa’s development – GetBundi According to him, preliminary findings of another research on the Cote d’Ivoire, Kenya, Mozambique, Nigeria and Rwanda markets by IFC and the World Bank (through the Digital Development Program Trust Fund) showed that by 2030 some level of digital skills would be required for 50-55 percent of jobs in Kenya, 35-45 percent in Cote d’Ivoire, Nigeria, and Rwanda, and 20-25 percent in Mozambique. He said only countries with STEM and digital skills-enabled citizenry can achieve meaningful development in the present world. Citing Singapore and China which are now flourishing economies as a result of the critical role scientific and technological advancements have played in them, Oparaugo said, “What China and Singapore have achieved in less than 50 years, Africa can also attain using STEM education and STI Skills acquisition, especially when one considers the abundance of human capital and the resilient nature of Africans, especially the youths.” He said it was to promote digital skills learning across Africa that GetBundi, an educational technology platform designed to deliver high quality, engaging and accessible STEM courses and STI skills, was launched in Lagos, Nigeria’s commercial capital, in June 2022. READ MORE: GetBundi to equip youths with STEM skills “Recently, in December 2022, we decided to run some of our GetBundi digital skills courses in Pidgin English to make them more accessible to more Africans given the conclusion of studies by the World Bank, UNESCO and others that using a language of instruction closest to the people matters a lot especially for learning foundational skills,” Oparaugo said. He said the edtech platform has a vision to up-skill, through its STEM and digital skills centre, 10 million Africans by 2032 and beyond in order to create an inclusive sustainable development driven by technology. 