Alleges Atiku plans to sell Nigeria to shady partners Presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu, has said the only way for the people of Kwara State to cement their political freedom gained via Otoge four years ago is to vote for his party in the coming general elections. Tinubu, accompanied by his running mate, Kashim Shettima, to the party’s rally in Ilorin, said but for the movement, the state would still have been under the grip of corrupt political leaders. They arrived Ilorin about 2:00p.m. to meet supporters who lined up the Ilorin International Airport Road, through Gerin Alimi Diamond Underpass, to the Metropolitan Square, ‘Asa’ Dam. Inside their white open-roof vehicle were the APC National Chairman e, Abdullahi Adamu; Kwara Governor, AbdulRahaman AbdulRazak; the Deputy Governor, Kayode Alabi and Information and Culture Minister, Lai Mohammed. Tinubu said: “I congratulate you today because you now have political freedom in Kwara. But my question now is, are you going to cement the freedom by voting APC to power again in the forthcoming general elections? “Make it an all round broom revolution again. The only symbol of freedom is APC, Tinubu/Shettima, Governor AbdulRazak and his deputy, all our senatorial candidates, House of Representatives candidates and House of Assembly candidates. So, go and cast your votes for us all, you will not regret doing so.” He praised the governor for doing a good job in the state, just as he described him a honest man with better visions for the state and his people. The governor urged Kwara people to prevent, through their votes, people of dubious character from taking over the reins again. The APC presidential candidate warned Nigerians never to be deceived into voting the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in next month’s election, saying a vote for PDP would be an error that will be hard to correct. According to him, the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, is only interested in the presidential race to enrich himself and his friends.
He said, if given the opportunity again, Atiku would only sell Nigeria to his shady friends in the name of privatisation. “You earned a favourable and great place in the history of our progressive party and of the nation when you voted for the APC to chase the PDP out of this beautiful and historic town. You kicked them out and now they want to come back. “Do not let them back in.  They only want to devour what they could not take the first time. If you give them the chance, they will strip Kwara and Nigeria to the bone. “The PDP candidate in the race is well known for selling everything that has the Federal Republic of Nigeria’s name on it. He wants to sell off your chance for a decent job, good schools, a nice home and a happy life. His aim is to sell and turn our public assets into his private estate. He wants you to go hungry, so that he can feast off the abundance of the land.” 