Operating a popular vetted exchanger directory, BestChange has a legacy of beginner-friendly support and unparalleled safety for new traders and crypto experts looking to exchange BTC into NGN via bank transfer, for example. On June 19th, 2022; the exchange passed 15 years in the industry which means it’s actually older than cryptocurrencies themselves. With cryptocurrency soaring in popularity amongst Nigerians, many people are looking to industry leaders like BestChange for direction and a guiding hand when selecting exchangers. BestChange strives to provide a simple-to-use interface for fledgeling traders and experienced pros alike. Without any special training, you can  easily search through and select from over 200 exchangers. As users make their decision, they can review user ratings, set up alerts to preferential reserve conditions and ideal rates or learn more about these organisations before making a trade. When exchanging any currency, like from BTC to NGN, users can rely on the currency converter to show exactly how much they’d receive once the transaction is completed. This feature is included as standard. Over the last 15 years, BestChange has brought a number of innovations to the marketplace. These include a UI with a quick step-by-step process and an easy-to-navigate interface, plus the ability to exchange without verification while still getting good rates. Overall, this makes jumping into the markets more rapid. Lastly, users are presented with a wealth of simple-to-digest information which includes iconography around any special conditions of the exchange. Or, if they prefer, traders can read real reviews left by customers who have used the exchange before them. True to its founding principles, BestChange has been helping users make an educated trading choice for well over a decade now. With more than 30,000 exchange direction pairs, Nigerian customers can monitor a large number of stablecoins, altcoins and other cryptos. Then, when they’re ready to exchange, they can do so via e-payment systems and fiat currency. Overall, BestChange has stayed a market leader for so long because it offers only vetted exchangers. If services begin receiving poor reviews or get a bad reputation, they’re removed or prevented from having a listing on the BestChange platform. From seasoned traders to new investors, BestChange has one of the widest arrays of exchangers and supports a huge number of payment options. This includes NGN, KGS, CAD, BGN, HUF, CZK, NOK, AZN, GEL, UZS, USD, EUR, GBP, CNY, SEK, PLN, MDL, TRY, RUB, UAH, BYN, KZT, AMD and TJS via Visa or Mastercard and popular e-payment systems. For day trading or quick trades, users can monitor rates and reserves via email alerts or over Telegram. It’s quick to set up and easy to adjust your watchlist via the BestChange website. Even older than cryptocurrency itself, BestChange was founded in 2007 to provide exchanger monitor services and alerts that enable trades at the best rates across 200+ vetted exchange websites. Ideal for everyone, even beginners, BestChange offers simple conversion tools, icon-based condition notifications and user reviews in a simple interface that anyone could navigate quickly. Users visit the website and choose from hundreds of trusted exchangers that work with their desired exchange direction. Then they’re able to see just how much they’ll get with the built-in converter before they complete the transaction directly on the exchanger’s website. For more information, they can be reached via email. 