The new Vice Chancellor of Aliko Dangote University of Science and Technology ADUST Wudil, Kano Professor Musa Tukur Yakasai on Monday says the university clinic will be upgraded to a General Hospital. Besides that, he constituted standing committees to review academic activities, security and other related linkages as well as the partnership between the university and its external public. The Professor Yakasai gave the hints as part of his seven points transformation agenda during his official resumption of duty at the main campus of the university at Wudil. Professor Yakasai, who recently took over the mantle of leadership as ninth Vice Chancellor of the state-owned institution pledged to resuscitate the feasibility of ADUST essentially in the area of Information and Communication Technology ICT and research output. During the brief ceremony organized to usher him into the university, the professor of agricultural economist stressed commitment to re-activate the e-learning facility, introduce online degrees and sub-degree programs and assured readiness to restore the lost glory of the university. According to him, the university under his stewardship will strictly adhere to due process and financial discipline in all ramifications of academic and administrative endeavour, just as he declared to run an inclusive administration. Professor Yakasai who applauded the ingenuity of the immediate past Vice-Chancellor Professor Shehu Alhaji Musa who he (Yakasai) said has transformed ADUST into an enviable feat, promised to build on the credible legacies and achievements of the former VC. The new VC urged the university community to bury the growing discordance and join the indivisible team envisage to restore peace, harmony and an atmosphere conducive to academic excellence. ” For us to grow, we have to bury our past and look forward to a greater and united community. We have to work as a team and focus on the scholarship of the institution, the utmost and primary essence. I am ready to run inclusive administration except for whoever is not ready. ” As part of our seven points agenda, we would restore our lost glory and make the university great again. We would ensure strict adherence to due process and financial prudency. Rule of law will be our watchword and the welfare of staff and students will be our priority. ” I have directed a circular requesting situation reports from all heads of faculties and departments including their SWOT analysis of the units. These reports should be submitted to the office of the VC within one week. We have also constituted various standing committees to examine the situation of academic areas with a view to make recommendations that will complement management agenda”.