The Lagos State Independent Electoral Commission (LASIEC) has urged youths and women to prepare to vote during the general elections to reduce voter apathy in the state and Nigeria. Permanent Secretary, LASIEC, Dr. Olayiwola Onasanya, said this during a voter education town hall meeting with youths and women across the three senatorial districts in Lagos State. Onasanya noted that mass participation, absence of violence and non-marginalisation of people, regardless of their political affiliation, religion and social status were key indicators of a free, credible and fair election. He, however, stated it is displeasing that “voter apathy continues to be on rise in Lagos State,” saying it affects the credibility of elections and a serious challenge to good governance and democratic culture. The LASIEC boss challenged women and youths to use their population and influence to impact the electoral process and governance in the country. Onasanya assured that “LASIEC remains committed to fostering inclusivity in the democratic system by facilitating a level-playing field for all stakeholders, irrespective of their gender, creed or socio-economic status.” While commending initiatives of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Onasanya said LASIEC would continue to engage public institutions, civil society organisations, and other groups to improve voter education and participation. INEC’s Head of Voter Education and Publicity in Lagos, Adenike Tadese, enlightened eligible voters on the use of the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) and other modalities of voting in the  general elections. Tadese urged the participants to get their Permanent Voter’s Card (PVC). The Senior Project Manager for Women Advocates and Documentation Centre (WARDC), Peluola Mary, appealed to women and youths to use their population to demand for true dividends of democracy during the election. She noted that next year’s general election provides an opportunity to every eligible voter in Nigeria to contribute to the growth of the country by participating in the voting process. She urged youths to shun violence and encouraged parents to educate their children not to serve as tools to perpetuate violence during the elections.