In line with the renewed drive to increase the delivery of affordable housing to Federal Government workers, over 3,560 homes will be delivered under phases 1 and II of the National Affordable Housing Delivery Programme. The programme promoted by the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) in partnership with the Nigeria Labour Congress(NLC), Trade Union Congress (TUC) and the Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA) is aimed at delivering decent, safe and quality housing for workers at affordable prices. A statement by FMBN Group Head, Corporate Communications, Mrs. Timan Elayo, said plans are on to commission 1,071 completed houses in project sites nationwide. Elayo stated that the house types are based on proven social housing models, one-bedroom, two-bedroom and three-bedroom units, with prices ranging from N3.1 to N8.3 million. The Joint Implementation Committee of the Programme, comprising of NLC, TUC and NECA has approved the commissioning exercise in eight states, namely 100 housing units in Akure, Ondo State, 100 housing units in Yola, Adamawa State,315 housing units in Katsina, 90 housing units in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State, 180 housing units in Damaturu, Yobe State. Others are 100 housing units in Sokoto, Sokoto State, 86 housing units in Maiduguri, Borno State, and 100 housing units in Kogi State. In his remarks, FMBN Managing Director, Mr. Hamman Madu, expressed delight with the completion of the first batch of the housing units, applauding the labour centres for their cooperation and support for the programme. Madu also commended the collaborative spirit that has been fostered giving room for labour leaders and NECA to understand the realities and financial challenges that workers face, while making constructive inputs to the housing designs, pricing and other relevant conditions for delivering the project. Meanwhile, the Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola has said that the government backing the Federal Integrated Staff Housing (FISH) Programme was aimed at boosting civil servants’ welfare needs in terms of housing for effective service delivery. Fashola, who spoke at the groundbreaking ceremony of 116 FISH Housing Programme Units in Gwagwalada, Federal Capital Territory (FCT), described Civil Servants as a critical component of development of a nation, adding, that it is the reason the administration is paying special attention to their living condition. He listed among other benefits such as the Federal Government’s support for States to clear their salaries liabilities; civil servants salary review; Pension reforms, and the removal of equity contribution of the Federal Mortgage Bank housing loan of below N5 million for civil servants The minister, therefore, commended the leadership of the Ministry’s public building and housing directorate for their commitment in securing the land and the development of the site master plan and infrastructure that would enable private developers’ interest for investment in the sector. Similarly, he assured Gwagwalada Area Council, a host community of the government’s continued support and effort in developing the area, citing the recent tax credit policy investment on infrastructure, and happily the Abaji- Lokoja road is among the beneficiaries. Earlier, the Head of Service of the Federation, Dr. Folashade Yemi Esan thanked the minister for providing the expansive land in a prime area spanning over five hectares for the construction of housing units. Folashade emphasised that the houses will alleviate the suffering of the civil servants, describing the groundbreaking event as a watershed moment in accelerating attainment of government’s agenda of ensuring the welfare of civil servants through the provision of affordable housing. According to her, the FISH programme was conceptualised as a vehicle to address the current housing deficit faced by civil servants. 