With less than five weeks to the 2023 general elections, the leadership of Yoruba self-determination group is still at a crossroads over their strategy and objective.
Protesters, who claimed to be acting under the directives of Professor Banji Akintoye, immediate past leader of Ilana Egbe Omo Oodua, the group that has been clamouring for secession of Yoruba nation from Nigeria, recently engaged police at the Freedom Square, Ojota, Lagos, where one person was killed and several injured.  He said: “I greet every one of you. Professor Banji Akintoye is the one greeting you. Today is the day that we Yoruba people wanted to tell the entire world and especially Nigeria that we are ready to take the self-determination of our own nation out of Nigeria. The name of our country that is different is Ile Ede Yoruba. We are no longer part of Nigeria and that’s what we begin to say as from today.  He said Nigeria, in his humble opinion, is better off as a united country than fragmented into different ethnic groups. “For me, Nigeria will make much and better progress as a united country.”
 
Dr. Olajide said there is need to appeal to all agitators from different ethnic nations to shield their sword and desist from plunging the country into any form of crisis, especially few months to elections.
 
He said: “They can wait till after the election, when we have representatives in the National Assembly, whatever point anyone wants to make can be achieved through their representatives.”
 
The Director General, Development Agenda for Western Nigeria (DAWN) commission, Mr Seye Oyeleye, said those opposed to self-determination must first understand the right to protest is guaranteed in the Constitution. “So, there is no right or wrong in the Ojota protest. But what you can ask is that, is it an auspicious time to protest? They are two different things. Yes, the agitators for Yoruba nation are within their right to protest and that elections are coming. To them, it is neither here nor there because they actually don’t believe there should be election or they don’t really believe in Nigeria and they wanted to exit.
 
“For them, that election is coming is irrelevant and that’s not what they are thinking. But you don’t want to ask yourselves what are their problems? Considering the constitutional provisions that hold us together, I would have advised that they can never exhaust that table of negotiation and that table is very big; such that grievances must be brought to that Nigerian table and talk.
 
“The idea that they are engaging in violence will not work. Yoruba land is still within the State called Nigeria, and the hope of the agitators for Yoruba nation would require them to sit down and dialogue and not by organising violence. I didn’t blame them for what happened at Ojota but anything at this moment that can trigger violence must be avoided. Don’t also forget that the State will not just sit back and watch a group of people disrupt its harmony. But, I am glad that some of our elders in Yoruba land have come out to say that violence is not the right way to go at this period. By going violent, you are not going to achieve your aims. My position is that the agitators for the Yoruba nation must go back and design better tactics to push forward their agenda.”
 
Lagos coordinator of apex Yoruba socio-political group, Afenifere, Chief Supo Sonibare, said people are entitled to agitate for self-determination, but such agitation needs to be peaceful and it must not infringe upon the rights of people, who may have different opinions. 