The Presidential candidate of All Peoples Movement (APM), Chuks Ibegbu, said 2023 offers Nigerians the last chance to rise or go into oblivion. Ibegbu, who is the Executive Secretary of Pan-Nigeria Presidency of Igbo Extraction Coalition (PANPIEC), commended youths for spearheading the crusade to enthrone Peter Obi, because “their future is at stake.” Describing PANPIEC as a political structure that believes in justice, equity and fairness in political leadership of the country, he said the emergence of Obi is an opportunity to have a competent, accountable and transparent candidate. He disclosed that Nigeria is traditionally set up to stand on a tripod, expressing dismay that one of the legs, the Igbo Nation, is not factored in the equitable distribution and allocation of power and national cake. He noted that the other two legs, Hausa-Fulani in the North and Yoruba of the South West have had their turns as president, asserting that equity demands that the South East be allowed to produce the next president. He revealed that despite many years of holding on to power by the North, the region is the worst hit in current hardship, as well as most under-developed. According to him, everybody in Nigeria, including youths, knows that power rotation to the South East is most desirable now. Ibegbu said that youths are worst hit by current socio-economic downturn since, according to him, they are yet to witness good prospects in the country, even as their future is at stake. The PANPIEC leader said Nigeria needs a president who is detribalised, humane, humble, accessible, amiable, compassionate, competent and who can interface with his subjects. He said: “Among the contestants, Obi has what Nigeria needs. We want an economist, a wealth creator, successful businessman, who can manage both human and material resources, as well as fit physically and mentally. Obi will take Nigeria to the next level, if elected.” The Vice National President of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Damian Okeke-Ogene, has also hailed former President Olusegun Obasanjo, Afenifere, PANDEF and Middle Belt Forum for standing for truth in their endorsement of Obi in the forthcoming election. Okeke-Ogene pointed out that most Nigerians are unanimous on the emergence of Obi as the next president, stressing that it is the only way to take back Nigeria from self-centred minority. 