Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri, has appreciated the resilience of people of the state and dedicated his 2022 Governor of the Year Award by Sun Newspapers to the victims of floods in the state. Speaking in Lagos, on Saturday night, shortly after he received the award, Diri expressed delight that the people of the state were able to surmount challenges presented by the disaster. A statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Daniel Alabrah, quoted the governor as also commending the people for supporting his administration, saying the award will spur him to do more. Diri also lauded the state legislature and judiciary for the synergy among the three arms of government, saying the cooperation has contributed greatly to the successes recorded by his administration. He said the prevailing peace and harmony in the state was one of the achievements of his administration and stressed the need for the people to sustain the tempo, saying it was the only way Bayelsa could make progress. He said: “This is more about the people of Bayelsa State. Whatever award we receive today is on behalf of the people of the state that have been very supportive. “Also, the three arms of government working together, that synergy has helped us achieve whatever we are seeing today. We give the glory to God. “I like to, on behalf of the administration, appreciate the good people of Bayelsa State, particularly the flood victims. We know what we went through and we thank God that we are alive to receive an award from The Sun. Earlier, the Managing Director and Editor-in-Chief of The Sun, Mr. Onuoha Ukeh, said the award, which was the 20th edition, is dedicated to recognizing those that have contributed to the development of Nigeria. In his remarks, Chairman of the occasion and former Governor of Ogun State, Chief Olusegun Osoba, expressed appreciation to the management and staff of the organisation for the organising the awards, saying it is a good way of encouraging development in Nigeria. While describing next month’s general elections as crucial to the survival of Nigeria, Osoba hailed the introduction of the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and urged Nigerians to be fully involved in the process in accordance with the laws of the land.