Dr Nureni Adeniran, the Executive Chairman, Oyo State Universal Basic Education Board (OYO SUBEB), has advised the newly inaugurated Education Secretaries not to abuse their privileges of office. {ad}  Adeniran gave the advise on Friday while inaugurating the Education Secretaries across the 33 Local Government areas of the state in Ibadan.  Adeniran implored them to improve the quality of education in their localities and reduce the numbers of out-of-school children.  He commended Gov. Seyi Makinde for deeming it fit to appoint the new Education Secretaries in all the 33 Local Government Universal Basic Education Authorities (LGUBEA) in the state.  Adeniran warned that there would be sanctions for any form of abuse. {ad}  According to him, the State Universal Basic Education Board has a very strong solid foundation for the new Education Secretaries in the areas of infrastructure development, manpower upliftment of both teaching and non-teaching staff.  He said the board had raised the bar for learning process for both formal and non-formal leather corners, learners and training of teachers and ensuring well-orchestrated primary school administration.  Adeniran, also urged all the Education Secretaries to be “high fliers” in subject content mastery, knowledge and skills that would guarantee prudence, accountability and transparency in their new appointments.  “You, as Education Secretaries, are now well positioned to build on the existing foundation and even, add value where it is necessary,” he said.  Adeniran admonished them to work hard for the success of the education sector with their new appointments. {ad}  “So that, at the end of it all, your names will be written in gold among those that have immensely contributed to the success of this administration,” he said.  Adeniran said he was convinced that their appointment was in recognition of their capacity, capability and contributions over the years to the development of education in the state.  “With you, a new era of primary school administration and leadership has, once again, been ushered in.  “In addition, you are expected to work very hard at your jurisdiction to complement the efforts of the State Universal Basic Education Board in particular and Universal Basic Education Commission in general,” he said. {ad}