 The Islamic Corporation for the Insurance of Investment and Export Credit (ICIEC) (http://ICIEC.IsDB.org), the insurance arm of the Islamic Development Bank (IsDB) Group, today signed a wide-ranging Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Abu Dhabi Future Energy Company (Masdar) which is set to give a major boost to the transition to renewable and clean energy in markets of mutual interest to both entities.  The MoU was signed by Mr. Oussama Kaissi, Chief Executive Officer of ICIEC, and Mr. Mohamed Jameel Al Ramahi, Chief Executive Officer of Masdar, during the Abu Dhabi Sustainability Week, held between 15-19 January 2023.  Under the MoU, the two parties agree to co-operate “in promoting joint action in the origination, financing, and execution of renewable energy projects through ICIEC’s insurance support in its member states.”  Among ICIEC’s mandate is to promote the flow of foreign investments among and into its member states and enlarge the scope of trade transactions between them. This includes support for transitioning to clean energy through the generation of electricity from renewable non-emitting sources and, eventually the transition to a Green Economy whilst ensuring sustainable economic growth.  Masdar is similarly mandated to develop commercially viable renewable energy projects in the Middle East & North Africa (MENA) and international markets. In December 2021, Masdar launched a global clean energy powerhouse partnership with ADNOC, Mubadala and Taqa intended to spearhead the drive to net-zero carbon by 2050.  The partnership will have a combined current, committed, and exclusive capacity of over 23 Gigawatts (GW) of renewable energy, with the expectation of reaching over 50GW total capacity by 2030. The expanded Masdar entity will become one of the largest clean energy companies of its kind and be well-positioned to lead the industry on a global scale.  Masdar and ICIEC share a common interest in contributing to the growth of renewable energy in ICIEC member states, including in the MENA region, and to the international climate finance architecture. ICIEC is positioned to play a key role in private sector engagement through the credit enhancement its policies provide to financial institutions on the one hand and the access it has to its Member State national and sub-national bodies who are the custodians of the relevant Climate Action projects and transactions.  Mr. Oussama Kaissi, CEO of ICIEC, welcomed the signing of this landmark MoU. “Co-operation between ICIEC and Masdar would bring about better co-ordination and more efficient implementation of their respective activities to the benefit of renewable energy production in ICIEC Member States. At ICIEC, each of our insurance policies, whether the policyholder is a financial institution, specialized company, or contractor, that offers cover against political and commercial risks, can contribute to the flow of Climate Action-related investment, specialized technology and equipment or services into its Member States thereby contributing to the goals of the Paris Climate Agreement and UN SDG Agenda.” Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Islamic Corporation for the Insurance of Investment and Export Credit (ICIEC). Media Contact:
Rania Binhimd, Communication Department
Email: Rbinhimd@isdb.org Follow us on:
Twitter: bit.ly/3jvUI1L
Facebook: bitly.ws/yhJR
LinkedIn: bitly.ws/yhJW
YouTube: bitly.ws/yhK2 About ICIEC:
ICIEC was established in 1994 to strengthen economic relations between OIC Member States and promote intra-OIC trade and investments by providing risk mitigation tools and financial solutions. The Corporation is uniquely the only Islamic multilateral insurer in the world. It has led from the front in delivering a comprehensive suite of solutions to companies and parties in its 49 Member States, including Documentary Credit Insurance Cover, Credit Insurance Cover, Bank Master Policy, Non-Honouring of Sovereign Financial Obligations, and Investment Insurance Products. ICIEC, for the 15th consecutive year, maintained an “Aa3” insurance financial strength credit rating from Moody's, ranking the Corporation among the top of the Credit and Political Risk Insurance (CPRI) Industry. ICIEC's resilience is underpinned by its sound underwriting, reinsurance, and risk management policies. Cumulatively, ICIEC has insured more than US$95 bn in trade and investment. ICIEC activities are directed to specific sectors – energy, manufacturing, infrastructure, healthcare, and agriculture. For more information, visit: http://ICIEC.IsDB.org.