Some Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) in Enugu State have lauded the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for listening to the cry of Nigerians to extend the distribution of ongoing Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) nationwide. The CSOs gave the commendation in separate interviews with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Enugu on Monday on the numerous benefits of the extension. The Chairman of Civil Liberty Organisation (CLO), Anambra, Mr Vincent Ezekwueme, said that the extension was more beneficial to those in the South East due to the numerous sit at home orders by agitating group. According to him, INEC officials should address all the complaints, difficulties, predicaments and lamentations encountered by prospective voters  especially those in the South East Zone. He urged Nigerians to utilise this unique opportunity provided by the extension to collect their PVCs and be alive to their civic rights and responsibilities. The chairman called on Nigerians to report to security agents anyone demanding monetary inducements or gratifications before PVC collections. “The Federal Government and INEC have made it clear that registration and collection of PVC is free throughout the country without exception. “It is incumbent upon the citizens to help the government in this regard by reporting those violating government directives to the appropriate authorities. “Remember your vote is your power; your complaints about bad leadership can only be corrected with your vote not with destructive criticisms,” he said. Contributing, the Executive Director of Daniel Ukwu Leadership Foundation, Comrade Daniel Ukwu, said that the extension of the PVCs collection was a positive development, which should be lauded by all. Ukwu, however, said that there was a need for more publicity on the PVCs collection points as some registrants might not know where to collect their PVCs since the initial locations had changed . While commending INEC for the extension, Mrs Onyeka Obi, Executive Director of Women Centre for Self Empowerment and Development (WOCSED), said the development remained a positive development for most Nigerian women. Obi said: “You know most times, women do multi-tasking to ensure that they meet up with their daily demands and responsibilities. “So you see that it is not really easy for women to spend hours waiting in queue for PVC collection without attending to other family, personal, and business demands,”. NAN reports that the INEC extended the PVC to Feb. 5 to enable more prospective voters to collect their PVCs. 