Edo State government has trained additional 1,200 teachers and head teachers as part of efforts aimed at strengthening EdoBEST, the revolutionary basic education reform programme introduced by the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration Speaking at the graduation ceremony, the Executive Chairman of Edo State Universal Basic Education Board (Edo SUBEB), Mrs. Ozavize E. Salami, stated that “this training, which graduated about 1,200 digital teachers is significant, because we graduated the final set of a training cycle that started in 2018, when Obaseki launched the EdoBEST reform under the administration of the now Commissioner of Education, Dr. Joan Osa Oviawe.” The chairman further noted that the new investment of the governor has shown his commitment to finishing what he started in 2018. “We are now fully focused on measuring the impact of the programme on learning outcomes and also on domesticating the programme for sustainability.” Salami said that the recently concluded training brings the number of teachers and head teachers trained under the EdoBEST programme to 16,400. “By completing the recent training, all 307 state-owned junior secondary schools and 1,024 primary schools were incorporated into the EdoBEST programme. Additionally, all 3,000 EdoSTAR fellows in basic education are now trained and placed in schools. “The most desirable outcome of any teacher training or any up skilling activity that we carried out at the board is that the learning outcomes of our students are significantly improved,” Salami told the graduands at the ceremony. During the training, participating teachers and head teachers learnt EdoBEST motivational strategies geared at bringing out the best in their pupils. They were taught about the role of teachers in the modern classroom environment, how to use specific instructional tools, including the character board, their teacher tablets and smartphones for classroom and school administration. Additionally, they were taught about the growth mindset, foundation of strong instruction, building blocks of a strong school, child protection, and how technology can be an enabler of better learning outcomes. 