Controversy bedevilling the rank of the  Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Kano chapter, took a fresh dimension as the Shehu Sagagi-led faction of the party on Sunday denied distancing the party in the inauguration of the state Campaign Council for 2023 elections. The faction also refuted the existence of any caretaker leadership of the party in the state just as he cautioned those parading themselves as such to avoid contempt of court. A release by Barr. Wangida Isa, the party legal adviser accused the Ambassador Aminu Wali faction of PDP of orchestrating action capable of testing a contempt of court against the factional group. The Sagagi’s faction was ostensibly responding to the inauguration of the campaign council for the sacked Gubernatorial candidate Sadiq Aminu Wali, the son of the former Minister of foreign affairs during President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration. Despite the recent Federal high court verdict that invalidated the nomination of Wali and upheld Mohammad Abacha as PDP gubernatorial candidate, the Wali faction in a disregard act to the court proceeded with the inauguration of the campaign council. Worried by the action, however, Barr. Isa insisted the action was illegally construed and carried out in favour of the sacked gubernatorial candidate. According to him, “We note with dismay the illegal and contemptuous act of inaugural ceremony for the PDP  Kano state campaign council led by the so-called caretaker committee. “The actions, we want to continue to state and remind the public unlawful and unconstitutional in fact a contempt of the court’s Order made by the Federal High Court Coram Just A. M Liman wherein he declared HE Muhammadu Sani Abacha as the lawful Gubernatorial candidate for kano state PDP.” The legal adviser also drew the attention of state PDP members to the fact that “these same anti-PDP members in Kano state are the ones claiming that we are no longer executives after the judgment of the court of appeal that set aside the Judgment of the Federal High Court Abuja.” He noted that the Sagagi-led state executive council had filed an appeal and stay of execution at the Supreme Court which allows them to maintain the status quo. “But today they are the ones who have only filed a notice of Appeal without even a stay of execution but feel that their candidate is still the gubernatorial candidate for Governorship election 2023 for PDP in kano state.” He condemned the act and described it as an act of disrespect to the sanctity of the judicial system while condemning the illegal caretaker committee’s conduct of the Kano State PDP faction’s Local Government election.