Says Nigeria needs bold leader like Tinubu to reset it The governorship candidate of Oyo State All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Teslim Folarin, yesterday, said that the presidential candidate of the ruling party, Bola Tinubu, would conveniently defeat the candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, in the presidential polls. He also boasted that he would defeat the incumbent governor of Oyo, Seyi Makinde, come March 11, 2023. Folarin, who gave the assurance, while addressing party stalwarts, said that the APC would also win majority seats both at the federal and states in the coming National and States Assembly elections and especially in Oyo State. According to him, the presidential election is more or less a walkover for the Tinubu-Shettima presidential project. The senator, representing Oyo Central District, also lauded President Muhammadu Buhari, saying that though most of the laudable achievements of the incumbent President might not be that visible yet to Nigerians, the fact is that the President had laid a good template for whoever would succeed him to accelerate the progress and development of the country in the areas of infrastructure. The senator also said that the South-West zone is a sure win for Tinubu, saying that the infighting in PDP would make the major opposition vulnerable to the well-oiled and politically-organised APC. He added that the people of Oyo should discountenance the propaganda that Oyo APC is divided, saying: “Contrary to insinuations, we are more united, working as a family and putting our heads together to rescue the state from the maladministration of PDP in the last four years.” Folarin said his government, when elected, would place maximum priority on education and especially teachers’ welfare. Folarin added that his government would improve massively on the agricultural sector by ensuring that Oyo becomes the food basket of the country. The senator, who stated that security in Oyo would be taken seriously such that 24 hours movement and massive investors would be guaranteed, dismissed fears or insinuations that the next general elections may be marred by violence or insecurity. RELATEDLY, Folarin, yesterday, said the country needs a bold and courageous leader like Tinubu to reset it. He also said that the current economic challenges in the country were not peculiar to Nigeria alone but a global phenomenon. Folarin stated these during a radio live town hall question-and-answer session organised by Fresh 105.9 FM, Ibadan, Oyo State. The programme, which was anchored by Isaac Brown to interrogate Folarin on some burning issues in the state, featured professional associations billed to ask him questions. While answering questions on the hardship Nigerians are passing through in the hands of the APC-led Federal Government, Folarin said: “We admit that there is hardship in the land but it is a global challenge. We are convinced that when Tinubu gets there, he will address the challenge and other issues besetting Nigeria.” “That is why we are excited about Tinubu’s candidacy.
“He knows Nigeria very well and the challenges of the country and what to do to address the challenges.
“Tinubu knows that for this country to stay together, we need to restructure.
“We need a bold and courageous leader like Asiwaju Tinubu.
“We have to have to restructure this country. Items on the Exclusive Legislative list need to be looked into.
We must allow the states to progress at their own level.
“Without restructuring, it will be difficult to achieve anything, even at the state level.” 