Chief Whip, Ogun State House of Assembly, Atinuke Bello, has said the presidential candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, will have easy ride to victory in the 2023 general elections. Bello, who is a candidate of the APC for Odogbolu Constituency seat, stated that Tinubu’s antecedent as governor of Lagos State would be a factor for his emergence as president. She said: “Tinubu possesses enormous qualities to make Nigeria great again. His legacies in Lagos are responsible for its rising economic fortunes that has made it the economic hub of West Africa. He remains the best for Nigeria today in terms of experience, exposure and commitment to a better Nigeria for generations yet unborn. “In Tinubu, we have an astute political strategist, an economist and administrator whose contributions to democracy resonates across the country and beyond. He has the capacity, experience, knowledge, the firmness; he understands governance and would bring that to bear in his leadership. “When Tinubu was governor of Lagos State, even without the revenue of the state, he did so well. He raised the revenue of Lagos State; he raised it to a point that has not been met by any state in the country. “Tinubu has been tested and trusted. He is a man with ideas and he is a man that knows what to do at a certain time to make things work. He is a man that knows how to make things work. We expect him to do more at the federal level with the resources that would be at his disposal.”
Bello expressed optimism that Tinubu would attract foreign investments into the Nigeria, while building the home economy, just like he did in Lagos. “In Tinubu, we have an astute political strategist, an economist and administrator whose contributions to democracy resonates across the country and beyond. “He has the capacity, experience, knowledge, the firmness; he understands governance and would bring that to bear in his leadership.”
Bello added that Governor Abiodun has no rival in the state, adding that his coast to victory for his second term in office is a certainty ”.