Osun State Governor, Ademola Adeleke, has intensified his drive for enhanced partnership with local and multinational firms for direct investment in the state’s economy. A statement by the Spokesperson to the Governor, Malam Olawale Rasheed, stated that for the past two working days in Lagos State, Adeleke has laid out the vision of his government for a public-private partnership relationship with a view to addressing the huge infrastructure deficit  and jumpstarting Osun State’s economy that is weighed down by heavy debt.
“In several meetings with captains of industry and chieftains of multilateral institutions and organisations, the governor specifically solicited investment on roads, agriculture, education, health, sports and information technology.
“From Monday to Wednesday, the governor met over 14 chief executives of various organisations, securing commitment from them to work on investment packages for Osun State.
“At the launching of a subsidiary of Dangote Holdings in Lagos, the governor expanded interactive sessions with top federal ministers, critical heads of federal agencies and managing directors of leading private companies across the sectors,” the statement stated. Adeleke, while speaking about his experience so far, reiterated his resolve to jumpstart the state’s economy despite the paucity of funds, explaining his strategies as “PPP arrangement mixed with personal networking with business leaders locally and internationally.”
“Our administration is being very innovative. Our five-point agenda are being implemented through PPP partnership. So, I have laid out a state plan to most industry leaders I met and they are eager to support Osun State.
“I have met several important business and government leaders on this Lagos trip. It has been very tight-meetings back to back. And the good thing is that we are recording successes. I will update our people very soon on the positive outcomes we are achieving.
“I intend to visit Abuja to continue the consultation and follow up. I will use that opportunity to visit ambassadors of the G-20 nations and the United Nations (UN) agencies in Nigeria. Our administration is being very innovative to meet the yearnings of our people,” the governor noted. 