The immediate past governor of Osun State, Adegboyega Oyetola, yesterday, inaugurated the Osun Tinubu-Shettima Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) in Osogbo. Oyetola, who is the state coordinator of the council, tasked the newly-inaugurated members of the PCC on efforts towards ensuring all round victory for the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and his running mate, Alhaji Kashim Shettima, as well as all APC candidates in the forthcoming general elections. The former Osun State governor, who reiterated that the state would ensure the delivery of over a million votes for the party’s flagbearer in the next presidential election, said that the APC had offered the best candidate to turn around Nigeria’s fortunes. He said no stone would be left unturned to ensure the emergence of Tinubu and Shettima as well as all the candidates of the party in the national and state assemblies elections. Oyetola noted that the country was in dire need of a competent individual like Tinubu to build on the gains of the incumbent administration and drive the nation’s potential for socio-economic growth and development of the country. According to him, there is no room for experiment on the choice of next president at this critical time in the history of Nigeria, hence the need to elect Tinubu whose political pedigree, good, responsible and responsive governance antecedents are second to none. Oyetola, who described Tinubu-Shettima ticket as divine, said it is worthy of note that the team is powered by tested and trusted hands as it offers a renewed hope for all in all sectors, ensures today and assures tomorrow for all and sundry. Earlier, the acting State APC Chairman, Tajudeen Lawal, urged the party’s loyalists to start door-to-door campaign and mobilisation of people to troop out en-masse to elect and ensure victory for the party. In the same vein, Speaker, Osun House of Assembly, Timothy Owoeye, expressed confidence in God that Oyetola would be victorious and returned as Osun governor, while Tinubu would also be elected the next president of the country. Owoeye, who described the outcome of the July 16, 2022 Osun governorship election as declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as a temporary setback, said God would soon return Oyetola back to govern the state for a second term before July this year.