As Diasporan group tackles Eze over comments on Obi The Zikist-Aminu Kano Patriots (ZAP) has described former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s endorsement of the Labour Party (LP) presidential candidate, Peter Obi, as a reiteration of his former vice, Atiku Abubakar’s original stance on the 2023 presidency. ZAP’s Spokesman, Dr. Steve Igweze, said Obasanjo’s choice of Obi resonates with Atiku’s belief that 2023 is the turn of South East to produce President Muhammadu Buhari’s successor. He said that it’s unfair for Fulani to succeed Fulani in a multi-ethno-religious country. Recall that Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential Spokesperson, Charles Aniagwu, had noted recently that: “It was not Atiku that made zoning open to people to just go and contest. In this case, there was a contest between the South and the North, and Atiku was considered by members of the party as the man capable of leading Nigerians out of the woods. “Atiku was interested in micro zoning to the South East, but it was the same Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State that frustrated it, because he wanted to contest.” While commending Obasanjo for his patriotism and statesmanship, ZAP maintained that the former president and his former deputy have shown that they know that proper power rotation is the correct thing to do to sustain Nigeria’s unity and stability. Igweze said that the PDP Presidential Campaign Council’s attempt to dismiss Obasanjo’s endorsement of Obi should be seen as a self-serving after- thought. MEANWHILE, Diasporans for Good Governance (DGG) has frowned on a statement credited to Prince Arthur Eze asking the presidential candidate of Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi, to withdraw from the presidential race, saying that Eze is not happy with the new order, which Obi represents. A statement in Awka, Anambra State, yesterday, jointly signed by conveners of the group, said that Eze has no moral grounds or political relevance to ask Obi to withdraw from the race. According to the group, gone are the days when Eze and few privileged individuals like him decided for the people, adding that ordinary Nigerians have been pushed to the wall for too long, and that is why they are now deciding for themselves.