The Human Rights Writers Association Of Nigeria (HURIWA) has accused the Governor of Imo State, as well as other South East governors, of deploying outdated and unworkable technique in the fight against insecurity, describing it as purely kinetic that lacks intelligence. HURIWA advised Uzodimma to abandon the belief that his so-called advanced technology, approved by President Muhammadu Buhari, can end insecurity, terrorism and other forms of banditry. The rights group challenged the state government and other South East governments to work on cultivating, maintaining and ensuring sustainable top quality, effective and efficient human intelligence, which would, inevitably, complement the advanced technology in crime fighting methodologies. HURIWA urged the governor to abolish the Ebubeagu militia, because its operatives have become political executioners, who are not selfless and professional enough to battle terrorists. HURIWA also wondered how Uzodimma thinks stability, lasting security and development will take place in the South East when the president has denied the region social justice by the continued detention of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, in clear disrespect to pleas for political solution by respected elders of the region, who visited him last year. The rights group added that the Buhari administration has also failed to implement the judgment of the Court of Appeal, ordering immediate release of Kanu. HURIWA noted that the unjust detention of Kanu complicated and compounded the security situation in the region, with many fringe groups, who may not be working with the proscribed IPOB, launching violent attacks targeting strategic national security assets and members of the armed forces. The group added that such development has given rise to extrajudicial killing of young Igbo people by members of security forces. The rights group, therefore, believes that deployment of advanced technology can only achieve minimal results, as long as comprehensive measures are not implemented to bring about lasting peace in the region through enforcement of policies that embody social justice, respect for rule of law and respect for fundamental freedom of the people. HURIWA, therefore, asked Uzodimma and other South East governors to urge Buhari to free Kanu and de-proscribe IPOB since the group has not been found guilty of any terror related attacks in any known judgment of any competent courts of law in Nigeria. 