APM Terminals Apapa has received the Nigeria Ports Authority (NPA) Platinum Merit Award for its excellent performance in Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) issues. The HSE award came after the terminal received the Terminal Operator of the Year award from the Maritime Reporters Association of Nigeria (MARAN) in December. The HSE awards is yearly event to acknowledge and honour port operators within the Lagos Ports Complex that have distinguished themselves in the area of health, safety and environmental compliance. The TerminManager, Steen Knudsen, thanked NPA for recognising the terminal’s efforts. He said the award is a testament to the transformation journey of the terminal in 2020, as all aspects of its business are being transformed, including infrastructure, processes, service delivery and development of the people. “Ensuring that everyone goes home safe after work is paramount for us. Furthermore, it enables us to be more efficient and give our customers a better experience, while adding more value to the Nigerian economy,” he said. He said APM Terminals has received several commendations and honours, not just for its efficiency, but also for its safety records.
Knudsen said last year, the terminal set a new safety record at the port, as it logged 500 days without Lost Time Injury (LTI). No Lost Time Injury (LTI) means no injury was sustained on the job by an employee or contractor that resulted in the person being away from work due to his or her injury. He said the terminal has adopted more environmentally friendly processes in keeping with its green agenda, adding that last year, it signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with FREEE Recycle Limited, to recycle its used tyres and eliminated the use of single-use plastic bottled water to reduce its plastic waste footprint. On his part, the Government Relations Manager, APM Terminals Apapa, Kayode Olufemi Daniel, who received the award on behalf of the company, said it is a demonstration of the terminal’s continued commitment to improving health, safety and environment, not just within the terminal, but also within the port facility. He said since the terminal commenced operation at the Lagos Port Complex in 2006, it has invested more than $438 million in developing infrastructure, acquiring equipment and improving processes at the port, as well as at the forefront of digitisation of port operations in Nigeria. “In March 2022, we commissioned a new digitised administrative building in line with our commitment to introducing innovations to help both shipping lines and landside customers achieve improved supply chain efficiency and flexibility cost-effectively. The building is the first of its kind, thereby, setting a new standard for port operation in Nigeria. “The digital technology embedded in the smart building has improved container handling operations and processing in the terminal, particularly, in enabling electronic invoicing and receipt as well as online payment processes that allow customers fast-track their documentation,” he stated.