Download logo Today, President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi met with Minister of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China, Qin Gang. The meeting was also attended by Foreign Minister, Sameh Shoukry, and the Ambassador of the People's Republic of China in Cairo.  The Spokesman for the Presidency said President El-Sisi welcomed China’s Foreign Minister in Egypt, and asked for his greetings to be conveyed to President of the People's Republic of China, Xi Jinping. President El-Sisi confirmed Egypt’s commitment to further strengthening the fruitful cooperation between the two countries, within the framework of their comprehensive strategic partnership, and in light of the extended path of their exemplary cooperation and coordination in an array of fields. This is, in addition to the outstanding performance of Chinese companies joining the development process currently underway across the republic. The Chinese Foreign Minister conveyed to President El-Sisi the greetings of President Xi Jinping, expressing China's keenness on further advancing its strategic relations with Egypt as a key priority and consistent approach. He underscored his country's respect and appreciation for Egypt, in light of its pivotal role as a cornerstone of stability in the Middle East region and the center of gravity of the Arab world and the African continent, under the wise and balanced leadership of the President. China’s Foreign Minister emphasized China's unwavering support for Egypt in its efforts toward comprehensive development, combating terrorism and achieving regional security and stability. The meeting reviewed prospects for forging closer bilateral cooperation between the two countries. The Chinese Foreign Minister affirmed China's keenness on further enhancing and supporting development programs and activities as well as national projects in Egypt, particularly in light of the comprehensive development progress achieved. This is in addition to the modern infrastructure that Egypt now enjoys, which is integrated with China’s “Belt and Road” initiative. The Minister of Foreign Affairs of China was also keen on listening to the President's assessments regarding developments in the regional situation and issues. President El-Sisi reiterated Egypt’s firm position with regard to restoring the security and stability of conflict-affected countries in the region, strengthening their national institutions, and supporting them in combating terrorism, which is considered a tool for the destruction of states. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of The Presidency, The Arab Republic of Egypt.