Doing the same thing over and over and expecting a different result, is the classic definition of insanity. Nigerians, definitely, do not want to be referred to as insane. So, why should we do the same thing always and expect a different result? Why should we continue to put the same characters in governance who have brought us misery, poverty, poor healthcare, poor education and the most ungodly level of insecurity, and expect a glorious Nigeria? There is now a critical need for introspection to find out where we have been all along, where we are today, and where we actually should be as a nation with integrity and respect. To continue our usual practice in governance, and expect a progressive country that meets the basic needs of our people, will amount to self-delusion – no matter the extent to which we include the term “progressive” in our party name. Democracy as a government of the people, by and for the people, will have no meaning unless it is practiced the way it should be – no matter our claim to it as our party philosophy. So far, our approach to governance, given the way Nigerian affairs have been administered by our political leaders since independence has left us in a kind of quagmire for which the citizens can only blame themselves for their unwillingness to challenge the status quo. Worse still, most of the citizens lack the courage to speak truth to power out of fear of losing access to the crumps from politicians during elections. The decadence continues and the masses continue to suffer in silence. No.  Things have to change and the time for the transformation is now! Today, we must be ready to confront our challenges which consist of the following, among others: Corruption; insecurity; poor economic management; limited access to quality education; poor healthcare; poor infrastructure; and lack of inclusivity in governance. All these issues are serious in and of themselves. But none is impossible to deal with. However, one appears to have the key to the solution of the others. And that is corruption. By definition, corruption is the abuse of entrusted power for private gain. It erodes trust, weakens democracy, hampers economic development and further exacerbates inequality, poverty, social division and environmental problems. It is clear from this definition that corruption is our overarching problem in Nigeria because therein lies all our other inadequacies listed above. Where there is corruption, there will be a lack of sufficient resources to tackle other ailments such as infrastructural underdevelopment, poor healthcare, lack of quality education for all, lack of necessary resources to fund our security needs – hence the state of insecurity in Nigeria today.  All these must change, and the time is now. We must fight back or else we are sure to go over the precipice very soon.  So how do we turn things around?
Incidentally, the solution is in our hands. We must get into governance only people who believe that public service is not for the accumulation of wealth. We should allow only people with verifiable character and competence to be in charge of, and manage our national economy. We must elect into office those who do not claim political leadership as a birthright. We must put into office only those with vision who can plan for tomorrow and beyond.  The “we” in all of these, implies that everyone is involved – man, woman and child. All hands must together pull the chain that moves the wheel from a decadent Nigeria to a New Nigeria that is for all and not just for a few privileged. We want a Nigeria in which all citizens can stand side by side, anywhere, anytime and say with gusto that though tribe, tongue and faith may differ, but in brotherhood we stand. That will be our New Nigeria. There is no other choice. We can achieve this only if we vote wisely on February 25th.
Professor Mogekwu is with the New Nigeria Project (NNP). He is based in Maryland, USA.