Troops of Operation Whirl Punch have arrested three terrorists at Damba community in Chikun Council of Kaduna State, one of which is the mastermind of the March 28, 2022 terrorist attack on the Abuja-Kaduna train. Briefing newsmen, yesterday, on military activities and operational successes being recorded in the various operational theatres within the six geo-political zones of the country, Director, Defence Media Operations, Maj.-Gen. Musa Danmadami, noted that in the past two weeks, both kinetic and non-kinetic operations were conducted and significant results recorded. He said: “Troops of Operation Whirl Punch on February 14, 2023 responded to information on presence of Boko Haram terrorists/Islamic State of West Africa Province kingpins at Damba community in Chikun Council of Kaduna State. Subsequently, troops mobilised to the location and arrested three terrorists. “One of the terrorists arrested was identified as one of the masterminds of the March 28, 2022 terrorist attack on the Abuja Kaduna train service. Following the operation, troops recovered two motorcycles, two mobile phones, $5,000, as well as some other currencies and sundry items. “Also, on February 16, 2023, troops on fighting patrol made contact with terrorists at Ungwan Birni in Kajuru Council of Kaduna State. Following firefight, troops neutralised seven terrorists, while others fled. Troops exploited the general area and recovered 83 rounds of 7.62mm NATO, 50 rounds of 7.62mm special, seven magazines, five motorcycles and three mobile phones, among other items. “Equally, on February 20, 2023, troops on fighting patrol to Gada Oli village in Borgu Council of Niger State recovered two AK 47 rifles, four magazines, 66 rounds of 7.62 mm special ammunition and seven BH/ISWAP terrorist flags.” Consequently, within the weeks in review, troops in the North West zone recovered 10 AK47 rifles, 83 rounds of 7.62mm NATO, 238 rounds of 7.62mm special, two locally fabricated rifles, one locally fabricated pistol, seven magazines, 19 motorcycles, mobile phones, 30 rustled cattle and other sundry items. “Troops also neutralised 23 terrorists and arrested nine, as well as rescued 23 abducted civilians. All recovered items and rescued civilians were handed over to the relevant authority for further action, while arrested terrorists were documented for further action.” Danmadami added: “Troops of the Joint Task Force, Operation Hadin Kai in the North East zone of the country, conducted various offensive operations at villages, mountains, roads and town of Gwoza, Bama, Gubio, Biu, Dikwa, Monguno and Konduga councils of Borno State, as well as Mubi town in Mubi Council of Adamawa State. Several raids, fighting patrols and ambush operations were conducted to curb activities of terrorists and other criminals within the Joint Area of Operations. “Notably, between February 8 and 13, 2023, troops, while acting on credible intelligence, ambushed Boko Haram/Islamic State of West Africa Province terrorists at locations within Gwoza, Mafa and Bama Councils of Borno State. At these locations, troops made contact with the terrorists, during which, 10 terrorists were neutralised, while other fled in disarray with gunshot wound. “Troops exploited these general areas and recovered six AK47 rifles, 38 rounds of 7.62mm special, 71 rounds of 45mm ammunitions, 50 rounds of 7.62mm NATO, five dane guns, five AK47 magazines, four motorcycles, two pairs of desert camouflage, 28 bundles of mats, clothing materials, medical supplies and radios, among other sundry items.” The spokesperson continued: “Equally, troops, while on fighting patrols between February 9 and 21, 2023, made contact with Boko Haram terrorists/Islamic State of West Africa Province terrorists at villages within Gwoza, Jere and Bama Councils of Borno State during these engagements, as troops neutralised seven Boko Haram terrorists/Islamic State of West Africa Province terrorists, while other fled with gunshot injuries. “Troops also recovered two AK47 rifles loaded with 10 rounds each of 7.62mm special ammunition. Other items recovered are three Dane guns, medical supplies, mobile phones, motorcycles, clothing materials, among other items. Furthermore, between February 9 and 20, 2023, troops arrested 11 Boko Haram terrorists/Islamic State of West Africa Province terrorists’ logistic suppliers at several locations within Borno and Adamawa states. “Items recovered from them include assorted clothing materials, medical supplies, large quantities of items suspected to be hard drugs, livestock, 138 jerry can of PMS and other sundry items. Also, on February 11, 2023, troops on fighting patrol responded to distress call on activities of terrorists at Mallam Maja in Dikwa Council of Borno State, however, the terrorists fled on sighting the troops. The general area was exploited and troops rescued 20 abducted civilians.”