The Nigerian LNG has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with three University Teaching Hospitals to flag off the second phase of its Mult-billion Hospital Support Programme aimed at improving healthcare delivery in the country. The beneficiaries include the University of Jos teaching hospital, the University of Port Harcourt teaching hospital and the University of Uyo teaching hospital is Speaking at the signing ceremony yesterday in Abuja, Deputy Director NLNG, Olalekan Ogunleye said that the organization has concluded plans to extend its interventions in 2024 to University Teaching Hospitals in Asaba, Nnewi and also to Bauchi adding that NLNG has a model, that has been tested.” He said that initiative was part of the company’s contribution towards building a better Nigeria. Ogunleye stated that the University of Uyo teaching hospital would get a twin-suite operating theatre, an accident and emergency Care unit would be constructed at the University of Jos teaching hospital while the University of Port Harcourt teaching hospital would get a renal facility. He said: “All these will be completed and commissioned within this year 2023. The four outstanding for phase 1 we will complete them and commission them this year. Also speaking, NLNG’s General Manager of External Relations and Sustainable Development, Andy Ode, commended health workers for their sacrifices and resilience saying, “we see daily the work you do and the sacrifices you make, thank you for your commitment. Your colleagues are all over the globe but you’ve chosen to stay and continue to fight for a better Nigeria.” In his remarks, Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, commended the efforts being put in place by the NLNG to improve the nation’s healthcare sector through its various interventions in beneficiary University teaching hospitals. Represented by the permanent secretary of the ministry, Mahmuda Mamman, he urged other organisations and stakeholders to partner with the government to fill the gaps affecting the delivery of effective and efficient healthcare services to the citizenry. While commending the management of the NLNG for its commitment to execute the hospital projects, the minister said that the quest for quality healthcare is a collective responsibility, adding that all stakeholders are expected to contribute their quota towards the attainment of universal health coverage. He urged other organisations and stakeholders to partner with the government in filling the gaps in the health sector as part of their corporate social responsibility.