Defence Headquarters, yesterday, confirmed killing of 81 terrorists across theatres of operations in the Northeast, North-Central and Northwest in the last two weeks. Director, Defence Media Operations (DMO), Maj.-Gen. Musa Danmadami, made the disclosure at a bi-weekly news conference on operations of the armed forces in Abuja. He said troops of Operation Hadin Kai, operating in the Northeast, eliminated 56 Boko Haram and Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) insurgents, arrested 26 and rescued 59 victims within the period. The DMO explained that the air component also neutralised scores of hoodlums in recent operations conducted at Gogore, a hideout, Damboa, Tumbun Dila, Arege and nearby settlements in the western fringes of Tumbuns in Borno State. Danmadami added that 340 terrorists and members of their families, comprising 12 adult males, 133 mature females and 195 children surrendered to troops at different locations within the theatre. He said the military had on January 27 raided a terrorists’ enclave at Yuwe village in Konduga Council of the state and neutralised 17 of them. The troops, according to him, also recovered one GPMG, 36 hand grenades and 77 rounds of belted 7.62mm NATO ammunition. The spokesperson said the troops equally on January 30 neutralised three terrorists and rescued 10 victims in an offensive at villages within Bama and Mafa Councils of the Northeast state. The military, he further said, apprehended four t logistics suppliers at Maina Hari in Biu Council on January 28. Danmadami went on: “Troops recovered a vehicle conveying 13 jerry cans of automotive gas oil, two mobile phones and sum of N5,000. “Equally, on same day, troops responded to credible information on presence of terrorist collaborators at Benisheik market in Kaga Council and arrested 13 suspects in a vehicle loaded with food items. “Troops recovered a vehicle with 20 wraps of cannabis, three cartons of biscuit, six mobile phones, six jack knives and sum of N72, 250. “Equally, on February 4, troops raided a terrorists’ enclave at Balange Village on the fringes of Sambisa Forest and neutralised five terrorists and rescued 55 civilians. “Also on February 6, troops responded to intelligence on terrorists’ activities and conducted several artillery fire missions on Tumbun Barebare, Tumbun Mata, Kaye Kura, Kwatan Yobe and Dumba areas in Kukawa Council of Borno State. “Following the artillery fire mission, feedback received later revealed that about 42 terrorists were confirmed dead as a result of the fire mission.” In the Northwest zone, the DMO said men of Operation Hadarin Daji neutralised 16 terrorists and apprehended seven in different operations across the zone within the period. He stated that the troops recovered 12 AK47 rifles, 16 locally made pistols, one FN rifle, 48 rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition. Others Danmadami listed are 12 rounds of 9mm ammo, 11 cartridges, 27 AK 47 magazines, and 10 motorcycles, among others. In North-Central, he said the troops of Operations Safe Haven and Whirl Stroke killed five terrorists, arrested 10 others and one gunrunner during the period under review. The DMO also disclosed that the troops recovered 36 cows, 10 motorcycles, three mobile phones, two knives and eight empty cases of 7.62mm special ammunition. He stated that the troops had sustained operations and would sustain dominance at the general areas by continually denying criminals freedom of action. 