A bookkeeping and payments solutions company, Dukka Limited has announced plans to equip small business owners with credible payment platforms to drive cashless transactions in the country. Indeed, Dukka stated that the move is coming on the heels of the Federal Government’s policy to push for a cashless society. Speaking at the launch of Dukka Point of Sale (POS) terminal in Lagos, the Chief Executive Officer, Dukka Limited, Keturah Ovio, said the mission of the company is to drive financial inclusion amongst Africa’s small businesses by providing them with the easy-to-use digital technology tools that will enable them to grow to become big businesses in the future. She said the solution is intended to cater to small businesses across Africa, pointing out that Dukka’s POS terminal is designed to enable small business owners to accept all types of cash and digital payments methods such as card and bank transfers in-store and online, record sales, and view business performance reports. “This innovation is revolutionary at a time in the industry when the Federal Government is pushing its cashless policy. Unsurprisingly, there has been a surge in the number of business owners demanding Dukka’s POS terminals ahead of its launch. “Founded in March 2021, Dukka is creating an operating system for small businesses to manage their finances better and accept any type of payment from customers across multiple sales channels,” she said. She added that as a company, Dukka envisions a world where small businesses anywhere can scale sustainably by making smarter, data-driven business decisions. “It achieves this by imbibing the culture of bookkeeping in small businesses across Africa through their use of its suite of business tools and resources, thereby enabling them to accept and track digital payments in today and tomorrow’s economy,” she said. According to her, Dukka offers a free bookkeeping app and POS terminal solution to small business owners. She stated that the smart POS terminal captures transactions instantly whilst enabling small merchants to accept payments from customers in-store and online. “Since inception, Dukka has onboarded over 200,000 small business owners across all 36 states in Nigeria, likewise Ghana and some other countries in Africa, Europe, Asia, and the United States, with a significant number of small business owners attesting to the ease of use. Dukka is helping small business owners across 15 business categories, to manage their bookkeeping on a daily basis Dukka’s POS terminals are rich with incredible features such as the ability to sell goods and receive instant payments, update inventory, generate receipts and invoices, evaluate daily business performance, and pay suppliers via bank transfers all from the POS terminal,” she stressed. The Dukka boss said the firm has continued to experience a month-on-month increase in positive feedback from merchants, which is a testament to the value small businesses are deriving from using Dukka’s product and services, maintaining that the company’s mission has always been focused on helping small businesses globally to become big businesses by arming business owners with the right tools to grow and scale their businesses within the shortest possible time. Every solution is designed with specific use cases in mind. With the Dukka POS terminals, merchants in Nigeria can now securely accept digital payments whether in-person or online, reconcile invoices, pay suppliers, and view daily business performance—all directly from the POS terminal,” she averred. 