The Managing Director of Vanguard Against Drug Abuse (VGADA) detox center, Dr. Hope Omeiza has sought the support of National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) in rehabilitating drug users across the country. Omeiza, who made the call during a courtesy visit to the NDLEA boss, Mohammed Marwa in Abuja, lauded the agency for landmark efforts in drug demand reduction. According to Omeiza: “Nigeria is the only country we have, we cannot fold our arms. We must eliminate the drug scourge.”
“We have reached millions of youths across the states with various community outreaches and other programmes. We have partnered with several ministries, departments and agencies on specific programs and areas of interest. VGADA Detox Center, which began operation on February 4, 2022, is the treatment arm of VGADA. It is a privately owned 100-bed space capacity drug treatment and rehabilitation center located in Galadimawa, beautifully situated in an easy to -access serene environment and therapeutic topography in the Federal Capital Territory,” he said. He said the visit is to officially familiarise with the agency and discuss areas of enhancing more partnership in the War Against Drug Abuse (WADA), drug demand reduction and treatment for sufferers of drug use disorder.
“We have a high youth-friendly culture ranging from having younger experts that clients are able to psychologically relate with to the facility being home to green area, emergency equipment, ICT training facilities, elaborate recreational facility housing basketball, badminton, table tennis, snooker, massager and gym equipment, as well as a furnished in house amenity hall with musical instrument, library, TV with fully subscribed DSTV and several board games,” he added. Responding, the NDLEA boss pledged to work with the group to ensure the rehabilitation of drug addicts. Marwa: “I am aware about the good works your NGO is doing. We need more hands on deck in advocacy and rehabilitation. We will find time to visit the facility. We look forward to collaborating with you.” 