The Buhari Osinbajo Solidarity Front (BOSF) has condemned recent action of some groups that claimed loyalty to President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. This was contained in a statement, yesterday, signed by BOSF National Chairman, Alhaji Ado Baba.  The statement, entitled ‘A political gamble by so-called Buhari-Osinbajo support groups’ reads in part: “We categorically state that the recent defection of these groups from the All Progressives Congress (APC) and their subsequent apology to Nigerians do not in any way represent the views of the real support groups that are genuinely loyal to both the President and the Vice President. “Their claims are, therefore, untrue and baseless. At any rate, what is the motive behind their desperate clinging to the names of the President and Vice President in their political gamble, if not crass opportunism and shameless anticipation? “A genuine approach would have been the exercise of their freewill in making their political choices, even if at the 11th hour, without the names of Buhari and Osinbajo. These so-called groups could have simply adopted the names of their preferred candidate in their new adventure. “We wish to make it clear that the actions of these groups are not only misguided and solely for their selfish interests, but also unfortunate, as they do not reflect the true spirit and aspirations of President Muhammadu Buhari and the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. “We urge Nigerians to disregard the actions of these groups, as they do not represent the true loyalty and support that both the President and Vice President enjoy across this country. “Supporters of the Buhari/Osinbajo presidency have no need to apologise or dump the APC. As the Vice President said, recently, when he represented the President at the presentation of the PMB Legacy Portal, the millions of beneficiaries of several people-friendly schemes of the administration, such as the Social Investment Programmes (SIP), among others, “are real people provided with a springboard to do more for themselves and for their communities; real people inspired to hope and believe that Nigeria can be positively transformed in our lifetime.” According to him, “I believe I speak the mind of the President when I say that our administration considers it a privilege and an honour to serve the people of our great nation as we have done in the last eight years. These accomplishments are the hard-won dividends of the social contract we entered into with the Nigerian people when we came into office in 2015.”  “Here as stated above is where we stand. Well meaning Nigerians should continue to ignore pretenders and political carpet beggars, whatever names they call themselves.” 