African Philanthropy Forum (APF) has appointed Gbenga Oyebode as its new Board Chair. Oyebode is the founder of Aluko & Oyebode (Barristers & Solicitors), one of the largest integrated law firms in Nigeria. He is a philanthropist who is passionate about education and the arts and holds several key positions within the social sector. “I am deeply honoured to be appointed the Board Chair of APF, after serving as a pioneer board member. Tsitsi’s leadership has been phenomenal, and strides have been made by the pioneer board members, transforming APF into a well sought-after organisation on the continent. “APF’s convening power has uniquely positioned us to bring leading and influential philanthropists and foundations together. “I look forward to leveraging our network to drive homegrown philanthropy and move the needle on development in Africa. I also look forward to working closely with our dedicated Board of Directors and Executive Director, Mosun Layode,” said Oyebode. Tsitsi Masiyiwa, who is terming out of the role as pioneer Board Chair at APF, led the organisation through its establishment and growth as an independent entity in Africa. It has been an honour to serve as Chair of APF. I am incredibly proud of our accomplishments over the past six years. “APF is a significantly different organisation from what it was at inception. We have a strong presence on the continent, with footprints in 14 countries, reaching over 3,000 stakeholders in the philanthropic community. “I am confident in APF’s future and in Gbenga’s leadership as we continue to grow and expand our impact on the continent,” said Masiyiwa. Oyebode is the Chairman of Teach for All and is a trustee of the Ford Foundation. He is a member of the Board of the Smithsonian National Museum of African Art (NMAFA) and Cleveland Museum of Arts International Collectors Council. He holds a Bachelor of Law Degree from the University of Ife and a Master of Law Degree from the University of Pennsylvania. He is a member of the Nigerian Bar Association, the American Bar Association, and the International Bar Association (IBA). He is also a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators (UK) (FCIArb). He holds one of Nigeria’s highest honours, as a member of the Order of the Federal Republic and is a recipient of the Belgian Royal Honour of Knight of the Order of Leopold. APF is a strong and vibrant community of partners who through their strategic giving, investments and influence, foster shared prosperity to transform the culture of giving on the African continent to the extent that it exceeds development aid by 2030. ($42b FDA in 2017, source: UNCTAD Report). The Forum was established in 2014 to build a learning community of strategic African philanthropists and social investors committed to inclusive and sustainable development throughout the continent. It was incubated by the Global Philanthropy Forum (GPF), a global network of strategic philanthropists and social investors committed to international causes from 2014 to 2016. In 2017, APF became an independent entity registered in Nigeria and South Africa. 