 Canadian singer Celine Dion (AFP PHOTO DDP/ MICHAEL GOTTSCHALK) Celine Dion is acclaimed as one of the best singers of all, she is also favoured and most though about when conversations around love songs arise. It is safe to say Celine Dion is synonymous to love songs. Despite dropping any latest songs in recent times, the French born singer who knows nothing but creating great serenades has an archive of love songs with a variety of themes that resonates with oldies, leading up to the 21st century. Be you head over heels, heart broken or in a love triangle, Celine Dion, collection of songs has a place for every soul. Below are top 20 love songs by Cline Dion for you and yours this valentine.
“My Heart Will Go On“ – Theme: Love and Loss, Year of Release: 1997, Writer: James Horner, Will Jennings, General Idea: A ballad about the enduring love of two people despite death and it featured in the film Titanic”. “The Power of Love“ – Theme: Love, inspiration and Empowerment, Year of Release: 1993, Writer: Jennifer Rush, Gunther Mende, Cindy Alter, General Idea: A ballad about the power of love and its ability to heal and overcome obstacles. Featured in the film The Bodyguard “Because You Loved Me” – Theme: Love and Gratitude, Year of Release: 1996, Writer: Diane Warren, General Idea: A ballad about a person thanking their loved one for everything they have done for them. Featured in the film Up Close & Personal “It’s All Coming Back to Me Now“ – Theme: Nostalgia, Year of Release: 1996, Writer: Jim Steinman, General Idea: A power ballad about reminiscing on past love and the emotions that come with it. “A New Day Has Come” – Theme: New Beginnings, Year of Release: 2002, Writer: Aldo Nova, Stephan Moccio, General Idea: A mid-tempo ballad about starting over and finding hope in a new day. “I’m Your Angel” – Theme: Love, comfort and Support, Year of Release: 1998, Writer: R. Kelly, General Idea: A duet with R. Kelly about being there for each other and offering support and love. “All By Myself“ – 1996 – Theme: loneliness and heartbreak – Written by Eric Carmen – Featured in the film Bridget Jones’s Diary “The Prayer” – 1999 – Theme: faith, hope and prayer – Written by David Foster, Tony Renis and Carole Bayer Sager – Featured in the film Quest for Camelot “I Drove All Night“ – Theme: Longing and Desire, Year of Release: 2003, Writer: Billy Steinberg, Tom Kelly, General Idea: A mid-tempo pop ballad about driving all night to be with someone you love themed around longing and desire. Featured in the film S.W.A.T. “Love Can Move Mountains” – 1992 – Theme: determination and perseverance – Written by Diane Warren – Featured in the film Sleepless in Seattle “I’m Alive” – 2002 – Theme: hope and resilience – Written by Kristian Lundin, Andrew Fromm and Josh Alexander. Featured in the film Stuart Little 2 “That’s the Way It Is” – Theme: Acceptance and Moving Forward, Year of Release: 1999, Writer: Max Martin, Kristian Lundin, General Idea: A mid-tempo pop song about accepting things for what they are and moving forward, themed around positivity and perseverance. “At Last” – 2002 – Theme: love and joy – Written by Harry Warren and Mack Gordon – Featured in the film The Family Man “Taking Chances” – 2007 – Theme: taking risks and facing fears – Written by Kristian Lundin, Jake Schulze and Peer Astrom – Featured in the film Rat Race “I Surrender” – 1996 – Theme: surrendering and letting go – Written by Jim Steinman – Featured in the film The Haunting. “To Love You More” – Theme: Unrequited Love and devotion, Year of Release: 1995, Writer: David Foster, Edgar Bronfman Jr., General Idea: A ballad about the desire to love someone more, even if they do not return the feeling. “S’il Suffisait D’aimer“ – Theme: Love and Devotion, Year of Release: 1998, Writer: Jean-Jacques Goldman, General Idea: A French ballad about the depth of love and the lengths one will go to show it. Featured in the film The Haunting. “Have You Ever Been in Love” – 2002 – Theme: love and heartbreak – Written by Eg White and Steve Mac – Featured in the film Maid in Manhattan “Beauty and the Beast” – 1991 – Theme: love and kindness – Written by Alan Menken and Howard Ashman – Featured in the film Beauty and the Beast “Pour que tu m’aimes encore” – 1995 – Theme: love and regret – Written by Jean-Jacques Goldman – Featured in the film The Parent Trap Bonus hit songs.
“Goodbye’s (The Saddest Word)“ – 2002 – Theme: love and heartbreak – Written by Walter Afanasieff and Diane Warren – Featured in the film Spirit: Stallion of the Cimarron “The Reason” – Theme: Self-Reflection, Year of Release: 1998, Writer: Carole Bayer Sager, David Foster, General Idea: A ballad about understanding one’s own mistakes and learning from them. “All by Myself” – Theme: Loneliness and Heartbreak, Year of Release: 1996, Writer: Eric Carmen, General Idea: A cover of the 1975 hit, “All By Myself” is a ballad about feeling alone and heartbroken after a breakup. 