•Organise free medical outreaches across 17 councils
A group of medical doctors operating in Enugu State have thrown their weight behind the election of the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr. Peter Mbah, saying they decided to endorse him after careful assessment of his manifesto. This was even as the leadership of the National Disability Support Forum for Good Governance pledged to support the governorship candidate in the March 11, 2023, election. The medical doctors, under the auspices of Association of Resident Doctors (ARD), Enugu State University of Technology (ESUT) Teaching Hospital, Parklane, Enugu, led by its President, Dr. Ofonere Chukwunonso, described themselves as medical field marshals saving lives in the country. Chukwunonso said: “We have understudied your manifesto and we know you have a good plan for the people of the state. We came to align with your vision, and we want to collaborate with you for a better, functional and robust health system in the state.” The group further extolled Mbah’s manifesto and statement of purpose to Enugu people, saying it would revolutionise the health sector in the state if implemented to the letter. While restating their commitment to key into the project and spread the message in the manifesto, the doctors said they had already taken steps to organise free medical outreaches across the 17 councils of the state as part of their contribution. Chukwunonso added: “Parklane serves other states and councils, and we want to engage your programmes with our colleagues, clients and the general public, and tell them about your plans for them. They’ll further take the message to their communities.
“The teaching hospital is a centre for treatment, training and research, innovation and development, which helps in the treatment of diseases. Although, we are facing scarcity of doctors as a result of brain drain, we know you’re going to curb it when you come into office.” In a related development, delegates from people with disabilities, yesterday, reiterated their support for the ruling party’s gubernatorial candidate, stressing they’re reaching out to their people across the state to come out en masse to vote PDP at the polls.