The National Christian Elders Forum (NCEF), led by a former Minister of Defence, General Theophilus Danjuma, and other elder statesmen, has endorsed the presidential candidate of Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi, for the February 25 election. The Forum also said reports that some regions were preparing to unleash violence during the general elections should not be taken lightly. While calling on the Federal Government to spare no effort in preventing violence during the exercise, the Forum urged Nigerians to shun politics of religion and tribalism. It called on Nigerians to vote candidates into offices based on capacity, ability, integrity, and good health because, “a sick country requires hearty leaders.” The Christian elders bared their minds in a statement titled, ‘Resolutions towards 2023 elections: Think new’, signed by Chairman, Dr. Samuel Gani, and Secretary, Pastor Bosun Emmanuel, in Abuja, yesterday. The statement reads: “In view of the need to ensure that democracy survives in Nigeria and the culture of corruption, incompetency, lawlessness, and impunity, which assailed the country in the past 24 years is eradicated, NCEF encourages Nigerians to think new. “Nigeria requires new leaders, new methods, new policies, and new political parties. “In view of the above, for equity, justice, inclusiveness, and unity to produce the preferred future for Nigerians, the NCEF is endorsing Mr. Peter Obi of the Labour Party as the presidential candidate to be voted for. “NCEF encourages all Nigerians of voting age to exercise their civic duty and ensure they vote for capacity, competency, integrity, and good health.” The Forum added that it “commends the Federal Government for taking steps to curb vote-buying during the 2023 elections. “While the policy of currency change has brought some inconvenience to the people, the long-term benefit should be appreciated. It is crucial that vote-buying must be prevented at all costs to prevent unqualified and incapable persons from bribing their way into power.” Members of the NECF include Dr. Saleh Hussaini, Vice Chairman (North), Elder Shyngle Wigwe, Vice Chairman (South), Mrs. Osaretin Demuren, Prof. Joseph Otubu, Dr. Kate Okpareke, Dr. Ayo Abifarin, Gen. Zamani Lekwot (rtd), Justice James Ogebe (rtd), and Elder Moses Ihonde. Others are Justice Kalajine Anigbogu (rtd.), Elder Nat Okoro, Solomon Asemota (SAN), Elder Matthew Owojaiye, DIG P. L. Dabup, Sir John W. Bagu, Dr. Chukwuemeka Ezeife, Dame Priscilla Kuye, Prof. Deborah Ajakaiye, Oba Dokun Thompson, and Dr. Taiwo Idemudia. 