The Presidency on Friday dismissed claims that the phasing out of old Naira notes is aimed at causing tension and introducing an interim government in Nigeria. Presidential spokesman Garba Shehu in a statement said President Muhammadu Buhari remains committed to abiding by the principles of democracy and handover to the winner of the election on May 29 2023. “The talk of interim government and truncation of democracy is way off the mark. Those who peddle it stand to gain nothing- nothing at all -but the creation of panic & the incitement of the public against the federal government,” Shehu said. READ ALSO: Buhari orders CBN to release old ₦‎200 to coexist with new Naira notes “The President looks forward to handing over the reins of power to his elected successor. This will happen on May 29, 2023 as the Constitution requires it.” The Presidency’s dismissal of the allegation comes a day after Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna and Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State alleged that the ongoing phasing out of old naira notes were schemes to cause tension in the public to stop the conduct of the general elections. Both governors criticised the government’s Naira notes policy, with Ganduje questioning Buhari on why he chose an election year to introduce the policy. Responding to the allegation, Shehu said the critics of the government and the Naira redesign policy have other motives for opposing the phasing out of old notes. READ ALSO: El-Rufai, Gbajabiamila, Ganduje dares Buhari over use of old naira notes as legal tender “It is another dangerous dimension by people who are afraid that they may lose their elections,” Shehu said. “Everybody is aware that there is a lot of pressure on everyone-all of us- the party, its elected officials, its candidates and law enforcement agencies following the way the currency swap has gone but the way to go is not to panic.” While the implementation of the policy has caused opposing views between Buhari and members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), especially the governors, Shehu noted that the president’s preferred successor is the party’s presidential candidate Bola Tinubu. Although Tinubu has openly criticised the timing of the policy and alleged that it was targeted at harming his election as president, Shehu said it does not change the desire of Buhari to hand over to him if elected in the Saturday, February 25 presidential election. “Finally, to state that: the President clearly has a favoured successor in Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, is not in doubt. “The fact that Tinubu has been opposed to the speed and timing of the Naira swap timetable does not mean he is against the idea of Nigeria becoming a cashless society. Of course, Tinubu does support a cashless society: for he is a man of the future. “Our people want progress, good governance, law and order and will not be swayed by the negative energy that is being expended against a well-meaning currency change.” 