Edo State Government has entered new partnership with United Kingdom Nigeria Infrastructure Advisory Facility (UKNIAF), a development partner, to build a Public Private Partnership (PPP) framework that fosters transparency in PPP project transactions in the state. The partnership was signed by the Secretary to the State Government, Osarodion Ogie, on behalf of the state government and the Managing Director, UKNIAF, Prof. Chidiebere Ontia, with members of the judiciary as witnesses. Addressing journalists after the signing of the deal at Government House, Benin City, the Managing Director, Edo State Investment Promotion Office (ESIPO) and Secretary, Ease of Doing Business Council, Mr. Kelvin Uwaibi, said the partnership would, among other things, provide the needed support to upskill the staff of Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) and the Edo PPP Office, among others. He said, “The technical support that will be provided to the PPP office will strengthen the capacity of its staff and other MDAs that are part of the project. More so, it corroborates the implementation of the ease of doing business reforms, which are being reinforced by the state action on the business-enabling reforms (SABER). “It is a deliverable under the SABER programme that Edo State must implement a PPP framework such as a law establishing the Edo State PPP office that is functional with a public domain of its own.
“The partnership will also help the state to achieve its SABER deliverable, such that when the project is completed, Edo State will be among the eight states in Nigeria to have an independent project development fund or project facilitation fund. The project, which is scheduled to commence this year, will be sited in Edo State.” Earlier, Ontia explained that the partnership is funded by the UK Government through the Sovereign Commonwealth Development Office, adding: “Among the states that have requested for our support, we decided to work with Edo State.
“This is the beginning of a very long working relationship and this partnership will guide our accountability on both sides.”