The Ohanaeze Ndigbo said, yesterday, that there was no going back in its earlier endorsement of the Labour Party (LP) presidential candidate, Peter Obi. It stated that Obi remains the most qualified of the candidates running for the number one position of the country in Saturday’s election, and urged Nigerians to support him. A statement by the National Publicity Secretary of the group, Dr. Alex Ogbonnia, said: “For the avoidance of doubt, the National Executive Committee (NEC) of Ohanaeze, presided over by the Secretary General, Ambassador Okey Emuchay, sat at the National Secretariat, in Enugu on Friday, February 17, and reaffirmed its support for Obi. “Their stance is in resonance with right thinking patriotic Nigerians and, indeed, the global community that Obi stands out as the most suitable, competent, visionary, inspiring and energetic presidential candidate for the forthcoming general election. And that he is not only an exceptional convergence of history, equity and public consciousness, he is also a moral edifice, purveyor of excellence, an ideal public administrator and the embodiment of the new Nigeria that we all crave for.” Emuchay expressed deep shock that while the Afenifere, Pan-Niger-Delta Forum (PANDEF), Middle Belt, the Muslim Clerics and, indeed, all those who want to salvage Nigeria from the current cesspit, have united in the Obi/Datti movement, the Ohanaeze Women Wing would embark on a mission that is completely at variance with the interest and position of the apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation. The women wing was reported to have endorsed the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Atiku Abubakar, as their candidate in the election. But Ogbonnia said that Ohanaeze “dissociates itself from such unwarranted, unconscionable and subversive endorsement of Atiku.” He added: “We reiterate that the Ohanaeze would not condone acts of insubordination and sabotage from any of its officers and affiliates. “We wish to use this opportunity to express our profound gratitude to youths, the courageous elder statesmen, the market women, the clergy, clerics, artisans, Nigerian students all over the country, the international community and, indeed, all oppressed and deprived masses of Nigeria for their support to Obi and Datti Ahmed. Obi has often stated that this election is yours and he is only a vessel to achieving a better Nigeria.”