Nigeria President Muhammadu Buhari has warned against riot and violence after election results are announced in the 2023 general polls. The polls will begin on Saturday, February 25 with the presidential and National Assembly elections in all Nigerian states and the capital, Abuja while the governorship and state house of assemblies election are scheduled for Saturday, 11 March. READ ALSO: Hackers can’t change election results, INEC assures Buhari in a statement said the election results to be announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) should be accepted or challenged in court by the contestants, warning that no one should resort to violence. “There should be no riots or acts of violence after the announcement of the election results,” Buhari said. “All grievances, personal or institutional, should be channeled to the relevant Courts.” “I urge the candidates contesting these elections at all levels to respect the choice of voters and accept the result of the elections as announced by INEC, the agency empowered by law to do so.” Buhari, who was first elected in 2015 and 2019 for his second term as president, said he is working hard to pass on a legacy of free, fair, credible and transparent election when he leaves office on May 29 2023. The president said he has demonstrated his desired legacy with the off-cycle elections in Edo, Ondo, Anambra, Ekiti and Osun States. “We allowed Nigerians to decide who should govern them. We are committed to this legacy in this administration. “We will continue to act with neutrality and allow the rule of law to take precedence over political expediency.” Buhari disclosed that he has told INEC, the security agencies and all other relevant institutions to be firm and courageous, and to abide by the laws and constitutional provisions in conducting the elections. “You are assured of this administration’s full and continuous support,” Buhari said. “We must constantly improve our electoral process using technology and all the positive elements it brings, to consolidate the integrity of our elections.” 