Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has said it is not aware of any N2 billion given to churches in Nigeria to mobilise votes for a presidential candidate in the 2023 election and neither received any petition dated December 22, 2022. An online news medium had reported, yesterday, that a N2 billion mobilisation fund was tearing the Christian body apart, alleging Labour Party (LP) presidential candidate, Peter Obi, provided the money. But CAN President, Archbishop Daniel Okoh, in a statement in Abuja, said the so-called petition, reportedly signed by one Pastor Frank Onwumere and addressed to his office, is illogical and can best be described as a failed attempt to drag the Christian body into 2023 politicking. Okoh, who promised that CAN would “investigate the source of the letter in the interest of the public,” urged Nigerians to disregard the petition, as its contents are not only untrue, but also malicious. He said: Nigerians should note that CAN, as a faith-based entity, maintains its non-partisan stance and will not endorse or mobilise support for any candidate in the upcoming elections, as against the social media post being circulated by some elements bent on soiling its name and image. “We warn those peddling the falsehood to desist from such acts because they are capable of defaming innocent people and revered religious institutions as well as breaching public peace.” ALSO, the Obi-Datti Media Organisation discredited the letter in a statement, saying: “It is a fact that you cannot be in front of a political competition and not get roughened, especially if you are in the race with morally bankrupt persons. “That is why we will continue to be amused by the desperation of some opponents to search for faults on the front-running presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Mr. Peter Obi, and the apparent frustration of not finding any.” The statement added: “Our mission in the Obidient Movement is to alert and warn discerning minds, especially those desirous to see a new Nigeria emerge through Peter Obi, to ignore and treat as thrash, any doctored and faked items on Obi. “Anything they are bringing now, after their long fruitless search, is concocted to tarnish the hard-earned reputation of the candidate and should be disregarded.” 