 Crawford University Registrar, Mr. Moses Itauma in suit and Federal University of Agriculture Abeokuta (FUNAAB) Dr. Hakeem ‘Bola Adekola in dansiki attire, during Crawford University administrators visit to FUNAAB The Unit Heads in the Registry, Crawford University, Igbesa, recently paid a familiarisation visit to Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta, (FUNAAB). Speaking at the familiarisation visit/workshop, the Registrar, FUNAAB, Dr. Hakeem ‘Bola Adekola, challenged Registry staff and university administrators to be open to learning and be able to defend their jobs in order to remain relevant in the system. Also speaking, the Heads of Units in the Registry of Crawford University, Igbesa, Ogun State led by the Registrar, Mr. Moses Itauma, Dr. Adekola, described Registry as the hub of the university administration and not an opaque system. The Registrar emphasised on the need for them to interact and open up, noting that they have operated too much in the cocoon. According to him: “One bad thing about our job as university administrators is that we live in the cocoon of our universities. We do not go round like the academics, except for conferences, which is particularly targeted at our job. It is however, important for us to interact with one another and open up because Registry remains the hub of the university administration.” Dr. Adekola also condemned the habit of new universities neglecting their mentors as given to them by the National Universities Commission (NUC), stating that the essence of the mentorship is to ensure that their mentors are to sensitise them on university administration, being a new university. He, however, described the visit as an epoch-making event with the coming together of administrative staff from different backgrounds to share ideas, and learn. Earlier in his address, the acting Vice Chancellor, Prof. Olusola Babatunde Kehinde appreciated them for coming to FUNAAB, saying that they have come to the right place. He noted that since the existence of the university some 35 years ago, they have had various challenges, but have been able to overcome them through the grace of God. He encouraged them to feel at ease, stating that the university is open to learning. Meanwhile, the Registrar, Crawford University, Mr. Moses Itauma in his address described FUNAAB as a global university known for producing high manpower human capital for Nigeria and other higher institutions in the country. He challenged the participants not to lag behind in relevance and value-creation, noting that as the engine room, live-wire and strategic arm of the university, they must ensure that their administrative and technical competencies and skills through regular capacity building and workshops as well as exposure to international best practices and current trends in university administration are up-to-date. Mr. Itauma charged them to constantly and consistently upgrade their competencies and skills with academic and professional qualifications, job knowledge, and should aspire for excellence so that it will enable them to effectively manage the complexities and challenges of their university in this 21st century. He appreciated the management for the privilege given to them and described the FUNAAB Registrar as an expert and a household name in university administration, stating that they are honoured to be mentored by him. The familiarisation visit-cum-workshop was attended by various Deputy Registrars and Heads of Units in the FUNAAB Registry, while the Registry team from Crawford University were taken round the various units in the FUNAAB Registry to familiarise themselves with the operations, procedures and processes of the Registry Unit. 