 In celebration of ‘International Mother Language Day’, TOD (www.TOD.TV) is showcasing a variety of Arabic kids’ shows that promote linguistic and cultural diversity as well as multilingualism. The 24th International Mother Language Day, which falls on February 21st, aims to enliven culture and connect people with their roots.  With its Arabic content, TOD intends to keep children occupied, engaged and entertained while watching educational and entertainment programmes. Subscribers will be able to access 30 episodes of ‘Hekayat Suha’ which features Suha ElMasri, a storyteller narrating tales using the art of suspense. The ‘Farhan Diaries’ series, with its 26 packed educational takeaways, follow Farhan in his journey to find different items or tools on his table and explore them with an adult character. The adult narrator guides Farhan and helps him learn more about his discovery. Whether as a bedtime story or a quality educational time, ‘Am Mosleh’ is a short fun, and engaging series of 15 episodes surrounding Uncle Mosleh’s tales, which feature captivating stories about an old carpenter – Uncle Mosleh – who works with puppets to tell stories and tales from all over the world. Intended to invite and encourage young children to read books, ‘Kanz Al Qeraa’ is a show hosted by a young Algerian boy ‘Mohammed Jelloud’ who won first prize in a UAE reading challenge. In each episode, Mohammed reads simple and exciting information from a book that he randomly selects from his bookshelf. Simple visuals appear on screen during all 26 episodes to grab children’s attention and inspire them to know more about the information given by Jelloud. Additionally, TOD also offers live kids channels such as Jeem, Baraem, Dreamworks HD (Arabic) for 24*7 infotainment. With Ramadan around the corner, content on TOD also educates children about Islamic values. ‘Habib Allah’ is a biography about Prophet Mohammad (PBUH) who grew up under the care of his grandfather and was called honest and trustworthy. For 30 episodes, the cartoon narrates the events in a graphic format around the ethics of the Messenger of God and those of Islam. Speaking on the occasion, Nashat Alkhaldi, Manager – Communications and Events at TOD said, “TOD provides subscribers with a wide variety of culturally appropriate educational, moral, linguistic, Islamic, scientific and entertainment content which are great ways to celebrate International Mother Language Day together as a family. With TOD’s offering, families can binge-watch and download Arabic series, and teach their children the values and importance of their mother tongue while strengthening their love and appreciation of tradition, culture, and literacy.” Distributed by APO Group on behalf of TOD. Contact: 
media@tod.tv  About TOD:     
TOD brings premium sports and entertainment content to viewers across the MENA region. The platform offers close to 40,000 hours of premium Arabic, Turkish, International, Blockbuster, and Children’s Entertainment content including titles from HBO, Miramax, Digiturk, and Sony Pictures Entertainment. TOD is also the region’s leading sports streaming platform for MENA, with exclusive rights to live-stream matches from various sporting events, including the UEFA Champions League, Premier League, LaLiga, Ligue 1, Bundesliga, Turkish Super Lig, Europa League, NBA, ONE Championship, Davis Cup, ATP Tour and all four Grand Slams among the notable ones. Learn more about TOD TV: www.TOD.TV