Wants Nigeria to learn from 200 years unbroken democracy The United States (U.S.) government, yesterday, clarified it has no preferred candidate or political party among those seeking elective posts in the 2023 general elections. It also stressed the need for Nigeria to conduct free, fair and credible elections that would guarantee peaceful transfer of power. United States Assistant Secretary of State for Bureau of Africa Affairs, Molly Phee, stated this when she led a delegation on a courtesy visit to the headquarters of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Abuja. The meeting, held few hours after the INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, met with leaders of political parties, was also attended by U.S. Ambassador to Nigeria, Mary Beth Leonard, and Political Counselor at the American Embassy in Nigeria, Rolf Olson. Phee said the elections “matter to the United States,” because her country is interested in consolidating democracy, and doing so peacefully.
“I also want to make it clear that the United States does not back any candidates or party. We back the process, we back democracy,” she said. Phee urged Nigeria to look at American history and learn from its years of uninterrupted democracy. She said: “The U.S. values our partnership with Nigeria. We want to encourage a successful election that is free, fair and peaceful. I am happy to say that I have confidence that you will have a successful election. Since 1999, Nigeria has been moving up, up and up. “I also believe that Nigeria should have confidence in the electoral process. We’re proud of our contribution in technical assistance, to help you meet the challenges of conducting such a large election. “Nigeria is a large and diverse country, and we, like your other international partners, are confident that you will succeed. I want to emphasise the importance of conducting a peaceful election and that every citizen, every stakeholder has responsibility before, during and after the election to ensure that it is peaceful. “I encourage you to look at the over 200 years of American history, where we have had peaceful transfer of power every four years.” Responding, Yakubu reassured the delegation that the Commission is on the right path to conducting the elections as scheduled. He said INEC is interested in consolidating the gains of democracy, adding that 12 of all 14 pre-election activities in the Commission’s schedule have been implemented.