• ‘NFVCB to sanction actress, producer for allegedly projecting Muslim women negatively’ Foundere of Fathul-Falah-l-Mubeen Muslim Organisation, Muqqaddam Mutiullah, has called on Muslimahs to adorn hijab moderately.
Speaking ahead of today’s World Hijab Day celebration, he observed that the February 1, 2013 declaration by Nazma Khan, a New Yorker, for women to wear hijab for a day was to promote religious understanding and tolerance. Mutiulah recalled that during the time of Prophet Muhammad (S.A.W.), women did wear the Khimar. Meanwhile, Ta’awunu Human Rights Initiative (THURIST–Nigeria) has confirmed that Nollywood actress Kemi Afolabi and producer Bisi Obanla are to be sanctioned National Film and Video Censors Board (NFVCB) for allegedly desecrating sanctity of Muslim women in veil. In a statement the Director General, Sulaymon Tadese, the group said: “Movie producers had, in 2022, produced different home videos, which directly affect rights of Muslim women in veil, and which we believe you are all aware of and certain steps had been taken to curtail furtherance of such indecent and nonchalant attitude towards the Muslim community.” “Pursuant to this, THURIST had written a petition to NFVCB to address this gross violation of rights of women in purdah. In October 2022, another Yoruba home video titled Osunwon mi in which the popular Yoruba actress Kemi Afolabi acted indecently of the Muslim women in veil, playing an adulterous role with the Niqob (Muslim women’s veil). “However, we are elated to inform the public and the Muslim community that our voice had been heard as NFVCB has vowed that actress Kemi Afolabi and producer Bisi Obanla shall be sanctioned for flouting her (its) rules on religious doctrines and maliciously bypassing her (it) to publish (produce) the said movie. “The NFVCB assures the Muslim community that the sanction shall be implemented to serve as deterrent to others. We are very grateful for the drastic step the agency has taken to bring down the movie from all streaming platforms, as we await implementation of the promised sanction.”