• How Okadigbo Calmed Rift Among Party Chieftains Prior to the arrival of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s campaign train to Anambra State, there were a lot of behind the scene push and pulls. At a point, the question on the lips of many party chieftains was ‘to be or not to be.’ The last major news stories about the Anambra State chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC) revolved around the party’s participation in the November 9, 2021 gubernatorial poll in the state.
  
Although APC featured on the gubernatorial ballot, the pre-election ‘two fighting’ between Senator Andy Uba and Dr. George Moghalu on the one hand and Senator Chris Ngige and Uba, on the other, ensured that the party was not competitive in the election. That was before the Supreme Court declared its participation a nullity.
   
Yet, like Americans would say that ‘whatever starts by division would continue to divide’, the recriminations that attended the governorship primary, which threw up Senator Andy Uba, reared its head again during the APC Special Convention and Presidential primary in Abuja. While Uba presented himself as state leader of the party, Imo State governor, Senator Hope Uzodimma, loomed large as Southeast leader.
    
In the unfolding clash of interests, Uzodimma wanted delegates from Southeast to line up behind the presidential aspiration of Senate President, Dr. Ahmed Lawan. But, Uba preferred to align with 19 Northern Governors, who rejected the attempt to impose Lawan without their input.
  
The seeming confusion threw up Paul Chukwuma, who tried to be an alternate leader for Anambra APC to douse the infighting among Uba, Ngige and Moghalu. As the build up to the general election gained momentum, the Minister for Labour and Employment, Ngige, disclosed his decision to excuse himself from the campaigns. Ngige explained that as his, brother, friends and political associates are contesting the presidential poll, it would be hard for him for support any one among them.
   
Ngige maintained that Peter Obi of the Labour Party (LP), Senator Rabiu Musa Knwankwaso of New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) and Bola Tinubu of APC are all close to him, stressing that each of them had worked closely with him in the past, as such he wont campaign for any of them.  Meanwhile, those engineering the public perception that the rally would not hold, also went to town with the alibi that being the home base of Peter Obi, the LP presidential contender, it would amount to a waste of time and resources for APC to hold a presidential rally in Anambra State.
   
It was further alleged that Tinubu’s contempt against Southeast made it impossible for the APC leader to visit the state in the course of his drive to earn delegate votes prior to the party’s presidential primary. But unknown to those eagerly waiting for the Anambra presidential rally to flop, the Senator who once represented Anambra North Senatorial District, had engineered a rebuilding process for APC in the state. Unlike the days when ‘Abuja stakeholders’ loomed large, Okadigbo perfected a system that ensured APC members, right from the ward level, have a sense of belonging in the party. Margery’s Magic Plan
AS preparations for the kickoff of Anambra State presidential campaign got under way, it became obvious that a lot of things were working in the favour of Senator Okadigbo.  How, From Where Came The Crowd
ON the D-day, everything was so much like a carnival. The colourful Ijele masquerade was on display, including other such entertaining groups. Anambra people thronged Ekwueme Square in their numbers.
  
Even, the state APC chairman, Chief Basil Ejidike, who had been touring the party’s national headquarters in search of ‘empowerment’ was stupefied as he stood directly behind Tinubu wondering how and where the huge crowd must have come from.
   
There was heavy traffic gridlock spanning Aroma Junction down to Regina junction. It was incredible that APC could pull such a crown in Awka. Supporters of some leaders that quietly canvassed for them to be handed the Coordinator position began to deny that they ever worked against the success of the rally.
  
The Coordinator, Okadigbo, in her remarks, noted that the huge turnout for the rally shows the love that Anambra people have for Tinubu, assuring that they would translate that to votes on February 25. “We mobilised right from the ward level, so all the people you see here today are APC member,” she noted.  And, feeling at home at the sight of the surging crowd, the APC presidential candidate started by paying tributes to the state governor, Soludo, even as he disclosed that after winning the president, the former Central Bank governor would be among his advisers.
  
Pleading with Anambra voters to choose him as they did for Soludo, Tinubu stated: “Charles Soludo, your son is not contesting with me or against me. He is still my friend. I salute his vision. He’s a brilliant man. He has the brain. He is a thinker. He knows the way. We will work together inclusively.
   
“When I become the president, Soludo will be one of those that will advise us; who will bring prosperity back to you,”Tinubu said that as a City Boy that tamed the Atlantic, he would equally tame the gully erosion ravaging much of Anambra land space. He also promised to create jobs for the youths as well as expand the industrialisation for which the state was known for. 