Spurred by the need for divine intervention in the nation’s polity, the Fatima Charity Foundation (FCF), has offered special prayer to enable the country overcome the myriad of challenges bedevilling her. The prayer session, held at the Muson Centre, Onikan, Lagos yesterday attracted Muslim and Christian faithful. The foundation expressed gratitude to Allah and urged participants to pray for the emergence of faithful, patriotic and able men who have learnt the art of good governance and nation building. Welcome the guests, President of the foundation, Chief Bintu-Fatima Tinubu, said she was grateful to God for making this year’s occasion a reality. Chief Tinubu, the Iyalode of Lagos, said the grace of Allah has kept the country together over the years. She said: “Nigeria would soon be heading to the polls to elect a new government, making it 24 years of uninterrupted democracy. You would all agree with me that God has been our help and sustaining grace as a country and a people. Despite this lofty achievement, there is still the need for our collective commitment ensuring that our fragile democracy is not disrupted…We realized that understanding the importance of maintaining a lasting democracy is key to the growth of Nigeria as a Nation. “We must be courageous, confident and committed in our quest to see a better Nigeria emerge always. Above, we must join the faith in prayers irrespective of our various religions but as well-meaningful Nigerian: striving toward a common goal, determined to have their say in the country’s future, seeing it as an opportunity; for a reset, encouraging hopes for good leadership that will reform the country’s governance.” The guest speakers, Chief Missioner, Jamaa’tu Ahli Llahi Sheikh Abdullah Akinbode and General Overseer, Covenant Harvest Christian International Ministry, Pastor Dotun Ojelabi expressed hopes that Nigeria would overcome her challenges and be greater. The duo urged Nigerians to play their roles in developing the country and elect good leaders. Sheikh Akinbode canvassed votes for the All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential candidate Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. He said Tinubu’s presidency would return better days to the country.
Pastor Ojelabi said Nigerians must be ready to make sacrifices if they want progress. “We are going to face a lot of discomforts but if we want this country to be great, we must be ready to toe the part of righteousness,” he said.