In continuation of its mandate to boost infrastructure and promote research in Nigeria’s higher education, the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund) has inaugurated the first indigenously developed COVID-19 research project at the Usman Danfodio University, Sokoto.  The ES said: “The project has shown that collaborations among stakeholders, each adding value from their areas of specialization to address issues of national priority will achieve the desired goals towards national development as they help to tackle developmental challenges.
 
“It also indicates to us that we are moving in the right direction since one of the mandates of research and development is to promote multi-disciplinary research that will increase stakeholders’ participation in the development matters.”
 
Echono therefore congratulated the group on its achievement and encouraged it not to relent in the efforts towards achieving the overarching goal of delivering a homemade COVID-19 vaccine.
﻿﻿﻿ 
Explaining how the project came about, the ES said: “Few months ago, President Muhammad Buhari welcomed the CEO of BioNtech, the patent holder for mRNA COVID-19 vaccine who had come to interact with Nigerian biomedical scientists and officials of the Federal Ministry of Health on the possibility of supporting mRNA vaccine production in the country.
 
“It gladdened my heart to be informed that the Vaccine development consortium sponsored by TETFund, under the Mega research project intervention was selected by the Honorable Minister of Health to interact with the BioNtech officials where they showcased their on-going vaccine development projects at the State House.
 
“As a result of their fruitful engagements, BioNtech expressed its immediate readiness to establish research partnership with Nigeria, in the area of strengthening local vaccine manufacturing in the country and the entire continent.
 
“Thus, the country leveraged on the existing Mega Research funded vaccine development consortium to gain the confidence of BioNtech in establishing a hub for mRNA vaccine manufacture in Nigeria.
 
“l was informed that part of today’s activities is a visit to the TETFund Centre of Excellence on Urology and Nephrology here in Sokoto. The development objective of TETFud’s Centres of Excellence is to support host institutions in promoting specialization among participating Tertiary Education Institutions (TEls) in areas that address priority national challenges and strengthen the capacities of these TEls to deliver quality training and applied research.  “The COVID-19 pandemic has made us realized and understands that all multilateral agreements between Africa and other nations of the world can easily be disrupted in the event of global health crisis. For instance, the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines did not prioritize Africa, leaving the continent at the mercy of the disease, which continues to spread within the entire sub-regions, further aggravating the already existing socioeconomic challenges of the continent.
 
“This therefore left us with no option but to promote self-sufficiency through local vaccine research and development projects.The VC announced that the Consortium was graciously awarded the grant in the sum of N450 million to undertake the project under the TETFUND MEGA Research Intervention scheme, which was introduced to immediately address identified issues of national priority.
 
He added that despite the numerous challenges faced during the procurement of some of the consumables, equipment and reagents from abroad, it was pleasing to inform that within 11 months of the receipt of the first tranche of the grant, the school was ready to present the COVID-19 DNA vaccine candidate for preclinical trials in Nigeria.
 
“Let me at this juncture inform the Executive Secretary that through the support of TETFund, researchers in this University have been able to work on many other high impact projects that are already yielding promising results”, the VC said.