A digital marketing group, QNET in partnership with Transblue Limited is providing training on entrepreneurial skills and business management to help Nigerian youths start, grow and manage their own businesses. Managing Director Transblue Abdulhakeem Abiodun, who disclosed this at a media round table in Abuja, noted that Technology and innovation have provided opportunities for young entrepreneurs to develop new businesses, solve local problems and positively impact society. He stated there was a growing demand for job creation among young people in Nigeria to drive economic growth. Abiodun stated that entrepreneurship education, financial literacy, skills development and business management programs are available for young people in Nigeria to build the skills necessary to start and grow their businesses in different areas, including music, fashion, and the arts.” According to him, “This partnership enables us to connect every Nigerian to the global network of QNET, which aims to provide a great business opportunity to those who seek a better tomorrow and transform their lives. We want to leverage the technological advancement needed for direct selling to achieve these goals. Abiodun noted that Transblue is a customer service compliance and logistics company and that the challenges they see companies facing in the Nigerian landscape made the company set out to become a part of the solution by bringing to the market superior Customer Service and logistics services. The Director-General of Sub-Saharan Africa of QNET, Mr Biram Fall, said that as a 25-year-old Direct Selling company, QNET allows aspiring entrepreneurs to build their businesses by becoming distributors, termed Independent Representatives (IRs). He observed that QNET has a global reach with a presence in multiple countries and a diverse customer base with an innovative business model that combines direct selling and e-commerce to reach customers worldwide adding that this business model thus offers entrepreneurial opportunities for individuals to start their businesses and achieve financial independence. He explained that the organisation uses a virtual e-commerce platform to conduct transactions, manage customer orders and provide real-time support to its representatives. Fall said Qnet had faced controversies in certain countries, Nigeria included, with allegations of being a pyramid scheme, adding that the company has consistently maintained a legitimate business model. “QNET has faced controversies in certain countries, including Nigeria, with allegations of being a pyramid scheme. We have consistently and will continue to maintain that we are a legitimate business model. “We provide comprehensive training and support to our independent representatives, including sales and marketing tools, product knowledge, and leadership development. The Group Chief Communications Officer, Ramya Chandrasekaran said the company launched a Direct Selling Disinformation Centre (DSDC) to combat the proliferation of disinformation and misinformation about the direct selling industry and its brand. “QNET operates an online global Direct Selling Disinformation Centre (DSDC) to dispel misconceptions, unethical behaviour and public complaints about the sector. “From an industry perspective, this is a unique initiative that advocates transparency and good practices. “The direct selling industry in Nigeria is largely unregulated, making it easier for unethical companies to operate and for consumers to be misled” She said QNET promotes entrepreneurial opportunities for individuals to start their businesses and achieve financial independence globally, especially in Africa.