President, Nigerian Volleyball Federation (NVBF), Musa Nimrod, is delighted by the number of players registered for the ongoing President’s Breach Volleyball Cup holding in Kaduna. Thirty-eight teams are featuring in the championship, which is holding at the Ahmadu Bello stadium, Kaduna. It will end on Sunday. Speaking on the competition, Nimrod said: “This is one of the happiest moments in my life because more players are embracing beach volleyball.
“I want to assure you that we are working with potential sponsors ahead of the national Beach Volleyball Tour in the coming months. I want to welcome everyone to this event, enjoy yourself, play safe and ultimately put in your best because we are going to make selections from here.” Also speaking on the competition, NVBF’s Technical Director, Martin Melandi, said the event is divided into junior and senior categories, with 13 men’s and seven women’s teams registered in the senior category. The juniors (U-17 category) have 10 boys’ and eight girls’ teams, he said. He said the NVBF is working hard to ensure players get enough playing time due to the number of international engagements they have this year. “The number of players participating in this year’s Beach Volleyball Cup is encouraging; it means more players are beginning to pick interest in beach volleyball,” he said. Among the men’s teams in the competition are Life Camp, GG Spikers, Desert Warriors, Games Bill, Nigeria Customs Service, Nile University, Kada Stars, Gombe State, Kano Pillars, Nigeria Correctional Service, Niger Brass, Nyanya Spikers and Kaduna State volleyball team. The women’s teams are Nigeria Customs Service, Adamawa Queens, Kaduna State, Nile University, FCT, Niger Ravens and NSCDC, while the U-17 boys’ teams are Kada Stars, Flourish VC, FCT, Adamawa State, Pro Spikers, Katsina United, Samba Boys, Young Eagles, Filkom VC and Nyanya Spikers. The teams in the U-17 girls’ category are Flourish VC, Kada Team, Plateau Peacock, Katsina State, Team FCT, Pro Spikers, Young Eagles and Filkom.