Given the popularity of cryptocurrencies and NFTs, it is no surprise that Jacob West Ghana has partnered with DPA Token (DPAT) to launch the first NFT-funded project in Africa, The Khari Project. This new venture promises to revolutionize the African real estate market and provide an unprecedented opportunity for investors, developers, and homeowners from across the continent to come together and participate in a unique project unlike anything seen before. The African Development Bank (AfDB) predicts Africa’s middle class will reach an unprecedented 1.1 billion people by 2050, signifying a major expansion of the continent’s economic and population base. This surge could bring about a remarkable growth spurt for real estate over the next five years as 200 million people move to African cities – marking the biggest boom ever seen for this industry on the continent! Since its inception in 2022, Direct Property Africa Token (DPAT) has revolutionized the African real estate industry through decentralization. It is also the first project to construct a borderless Web3 investment and trading platform that directly involves Africa on an international level. DPAT aims to redefine how investments are made and traded throughout the continent for greater exposure and returns. DPAT is a groundbreaking Web3-native real estate investment and trading platform aiming to bring transparency and inclusivity to a market in need of alternative finance and an international investor base looking for a safe way to access lucrative African assets. The team has been KYC’d by Coinsult and the smart contract has been audited by SolidProof. DPA helps infrastructure and real estate developers raise funds with every development project chosen being digitized and listed on the marketplace. Each digital copy is broken down into several components, and then each component becomes a blockchain-based non-fungible token. The newly formed NFTs are further split up until they become fractionalized tokens. DPAT stands as the foundation of its project’s tokenomics structure. This ERC-20 asset is minted on Ethereum’s blockchain, providing greater security and a well-rounded platform for users to engage. In December 2022, the DPA Token (DPAT) earlybird private sale went live with a small amount from the total supply of 1 billion tokens made available and snapped up in record time. 350 million have been allocated for the official public presale in 2023, and users are allowed to join through a custom built platform via the website www.dpatoken.io Jacob West Ghana Ltd is a trusted property development and management company based in Accra Ghana, that works with a mission to create modern and innovative projects that are tailored to the needs of their clients. They specialize in professional real estate development, property management, and rental services, offering high-end solutions for Africa’s ever-growing metropolis areas. Jacob West Ghana is also one of the developers behind this revolutionary project. Their team brings extensive experience in real estate market analysis as well as construction expertise – coupled with a deep understanding of Africa’s unique challenges and opportunities when it comes to infrastructure growth. This makes them the perfectly positioned local partner to capitalize on this groundbreaking opportunity and bring about unparalleled success for all stakeholders! Their involvement ensures a smooth transition from traditional real estate investment and trading to the novel world of blockchain-based investments. The alliance of DPA Token (DPAT) and Jacob West Ghana is sure to bring about an unprecedented amount of economic growth for so many Africans over the coming decades! The partnership with Jacob West Ghana is just the beginning for DPA Token and they aim to work with land, property and infrastructure developers of all sizes in major cities across Africa  to help them raise finance and take advantage of new technology. Cities like, Accra, Lagos, Abuja, Cairo, Cape Town, Johannesburg, Kigali, Nairobi, and Addis Ababa to name a few. The entrance of DPA token signifies a major milestone for the African real estate market. The promise of fractionalized investments and improved liquidity will revolutionize how developers and investors are able to create wealth on the continent. On top of that, the introduction of NFT tokens backed by actual African land will provide unprecedented security, transparency, and trustworthiness to this huge industry. In the coming years, the African real estate market is predicted to experience exponential growth, and DPA Token (DPAT) offers retail investors a special chance to profit from this expansion. Africa has really landed on blockchain and the community now gets a say in what gets built, by whom, for whom, and where. For more information and to support the project visit: https://dpatoken.io/link/   