The Director General of National Lottery Regulatory Commission (NLRC), Lanre Gbajabiamila, has expressed confidence in the capacity of the national lottery agency to contribute to economic growth and development in the country. Gbajabiamila, who visited the National Lottery Nigeria (NLN) in Abuja to inspect their facilities for the takeoff of the games, said the NLRC is committed to ensuring that the game is well regulated to meet international standards. He stressed that the commission is not only looking forward to the successful launch of the game, but also its commitment to responsible gaming. The Managing Director of NLN, Layi Onafowokan, led Gbajabiamila on inspection of the facilities, including their state-of-the-art digital lottery systems, security measures and customer service operations. Gbajabiamila expressed satisfaction with the progress made in the preparation for the take off, and urged the staff to stay focused on the task ahead. He promised that the NLRC will continue to work with the NLN to ensure that it meets the highest standards of quality and integrity. He said, “it was a privilege to visit National Lottery Nigeria today. The company’s commitment to responsible gaming, ethical operations, and transparency is commendable and serves as a model for the lottery industry. I appreciate their efforts in contributing to the nation’s revenue, and I look forward to working together to ensure that the lottery industry continues to thrive and serve Nigeria.” Onafowokan expressed the commitment of the NLN to the success of the National game. He also expressed their appreciation to the NLRC for the support and guidance that has been provided to them. He said, “We will also like to assure you that what we are doing today will be to the economic benefit of Nigerians in general.”
We guarantee you that the games we have lined up will change the lives of people and we are going to be ensuring responsible gaming. “We will be supporting various initiatives in the areas of sports, education and health. These are paramount to the Nigerian populace and we are going to be supporting these causes. Once again, we appreciate you for this courtesy visit. Please be rest assured that the National Lottery Nigeria is set to launch the National Games in a very short time. “This visit demonstrates the importance that the government places on the lottery industry and its impact on the local economy. We are proud of our company’s commitment to responsible gaming, ethical operations, and transparency, and we are confident that this visit will further strengthen our relationship with the government. “National Lottery Nigeria (National Game) was designed as a social intervention tool that will directly and positively affect the lives of Nigerians by giving them the opportunity to win mouthwatering prizes. The company also aims to start a “Good Causes” Foundation that supports sports, youths, education, health provision, assistance at times of grief, and much more. “Our flagship game is the Naija Mega Jackpot with a minimum Jackpot of N45 million, which is progressive and shall grow to hundreds of millions and more”.