An Abuja-based gamer, Oluseyi LAsisi, was on Thursday presented with a cheque N2 million, which he won from Mega Million Naija Lottery Scheme. Presenting the cheque to Lasisi, International Gaming and Entertainment Limited (IGE), promoters of “Mega Millions Naija lottery scheme, said it was obligated to sustain its core value of integrity to subscribers that emerged as lucky winners of the scheme. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)	reports that IGE is licensed by the National Lottery Regulatory Commission to operate a national lottery promotional scheme, “Mega Millions Naija.” Speaking while presenting the cheque, IGE Director, Okwy Okeke, said: “If you are regulated and your licence is current with the National Lottery Regulatory Commission, it means that you are legitimate and legal. “Mega Millions Naija is actually a messenger platform, that simply helps people to buy tickets for the lottery played either in Western Europe, North America or Australia, and Brazil and would also help you collect the money at no extra commission.
“And when you win, we help you collect, so you don’t have to travel , without us you will have to fly to many countries to participate in any of their lotteries, but with us, you send us as messengers and we get it done for you.” He said the company via its activities was also contributing to the growth of the economy via job creation and provision of corporate social responsibility.
“We assist Nigerian economy, and Nigerians in more ways than one. We employ many Nigerians, and for every naira worth of lottery people buy, we dedicate a percentage to charity, we are still in the process of building a school block at Seun, near Sagamu in Ogun State, so we also engage in charity.
“From the point of view of the economy, money won comes into Nigerian economy, and money won has a way of shoring up the value of the Naira.” He explained that the company was involved in facilitation of playing of multiple lotteries for subscribers every single day. “Three to six lotteries are drawn on our platform and very soon we would also start a local draw of every week, we would give out million naira to a random player, Monday to Saturday, we have multiple lotteries drawn, a good example is the US power ball draw.” Lasisi, winner of the N2 million at the presentation of the cheque was represented by his friend, Adekunle Mohammad, who received the cheque on his behalf.