Omnik Limited has called on the Federal Government to support the growth of small-scale industries in the country, noting that this is a key path to achieving an all-inclusive economic growth. The Chief Executive Officer, Omnik Limited, Harish Thavrani, at a free health camp in conjunction with Kirti’s Kare Foundation (KKF) in Agboyi-Ketu area of Lagos, said with over 35 years’ experience in Nigeria, doing business has been mixed with challenges and opportunities, but believes that the nation is still a destination for both local and foreign investments. “We have been in operations for over 35 years, despite the challenges. Nigeria is a very friendly place. So, whatever happens, we know how to manage situations here. The government should encourage industries and be a bit supportive” he said. He however stated that the health camp is an opportunity for his company to give back to the society In his words: “Nigeria has given us a lot and it is time to give back to Nigeria a number of few things. This is a health camp and we are going to continue this initiative every three months. We help to create cottage industries by manufacturing small machines to support small business owners. We believe that every house can be a factory.” According to him, more than 11,000 people have benefitted from its medical outreach programmes in the country “We do this regularly every three months to give out artificial limbs and offer medical services. In another three months, we are going to have an eye camp to help people with sight issues,” he assured. Also speaking on the sidelines of the event, the Founder, KKF, Kirti Sudhanshu, said the health camp is its first health outreach programme in 2023, pointing out that her foundation has organised quite a number of camps in the country. She said with the initiative, both organisations are focusing on health, education, empowerment and sports development “If you have good health, you have a good life and if you are educated, you can earn a good income. The health outreach programme is about giving back to society. We are treating today 1500 people and we are also launching our 02 project which is KKF and Omnik cottage empowerment project where we would be subsidising the cost of nylon machine equipment for startups while we also give them vocational training,” she said She called on the Nigerian government to support industries to create job opportunities and wealth creation while also urging the government to work closely with private sector organisations to empower the Nigerian unemployed youths. On his part, the Executive Chairman, Agboyi-Ketu LCDA Dele Oshinowo, called for the support of corporate organisations, charitable organisations and individuals to help drive community growth and development. “This is a call to humanity service and these two organisations have established that they are the leading companies providing Corporate Social Responsibility in Agboyi-Ketu. During the Covid-19 era, Omnik provided food palliatives and supported us from day one to the end while KKF has been doing that across the States. I believe that with this, a lot of people would be helped out of their health challenges,” he said. 