The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the National Economic Summit Group (NESG), have launched a new partnership aimed at addressing child rights violations and poverty in Nigeria. The partnership, which was supported by the federal government, will focus on aligning the nation’s poverty reduction strategy with the child and national Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI). It will also help in reviewing social sector policies towards reducing child poverty and implementing presidential-level accountability measures for reporting and feedback on child rights and poverty in Nigeria. Speaking at the launch yesterday in Abuja, UNICEF Nigeria Country Representative, Cristian Munduate, observed that the organization is dedicated to protecting children’s rights in Nigeria and globally as well as helping them build a strong foundation for their future. Munduate explained that the partnership with NESG highlights the urgency of realizing this goal and will coordinate efforts to achieve child rights protection in Nigeria through effective public policies.” She said: “Investing in children is an investment in human capital. The right nutrition and care, especially during the first 1000 days of life, can have a significant impact on a child’s ability to grow, learn and rise out of poverty. It can break the cycle of poverty for families, communities and countries. It can also shape a society’s long-term stability and prosperity.” On his part, the Chairman of NESG, Niyi Yusuf, said it is very crucial to tackle child rights violations and poverty in Nigeria to ensure their success. He said: “Today’s children are tomorrow’s leaders, and it is crucial that we tackle child rights violations and poverty in Nigeria to ensure their success. According to the National MPI 2022, two-thirds of children in Nigeria are multi-dimensionally poor, with 51 per cent of all poor people being children. This means that over half of poor children lack the intellectual stimulation necessary for early childhood development”. “Our partnership with UNICEF is both timely and significant. UNICEF is a leading provider of humanitarian and developmental aid for children worldwide, and this launch represents a critical step towards a future where children’s rights are respected, and they receive the support they need to become productive citizens”, he added.