The ongoing conspiracy to facilitate and arrange travel with the aim of exploitation trial of former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu and three others, including his wife, Beatrice and Sonia, their daughter, will reach boiling point tomorrow, when their accuser takes his turn as the Crown Prosecution’s witness. However, the 21-year old will not be physically present inside the Old Bailey courtroom. Nwamini, who triggered the arrests of the Ekweremadus on June 21, after he had been asked to go back to Nigeria in May, as he wasn’t deemed a suitable match as donor for Sonia, will give his evidence by video link to safeguard him. An indication of the significance of his evidence to the trial was evident in court on Friday, after the judge had sent the 12 jurors home for the weekend, charging them to go “enjoy yourselves,” and not “search for the case online.” The format of his evidence generated controversy between the Crown and the defence, with the Senator’s team and that of Dr. Obinna Obeta demanding to know the format. Kick starting the argument, one of Ekweremadu’s two barristers asked: “if the Police are able to show the reaction of Nwamini for the jury to see” when the interview is played. On her part, Obeta’s barrister said:” defence wants to know the manner of Nwamini’s witness.” She further emphasised the point that:” this is the only witness who said he was offered money for his body part.” The prosecution later conceded and said: ”it – Nwamini’s body language – will be shown.” But prosecutor, Hugh Davies, KC said, “the prosecution contends for him to be asked questions,” noting that “lines will be crossed “ in the process. After agreeing for the recorded interview to be shown in a way for his reaction to be seen by the jury, the prosecution stated that: “The witness should be reviewing their evidence” and that “he will be asked if he wishes to change anything he had said.” When the judge asked: ”is anything wrong in principle if he wants to change what he had said in his interview?” Obeta’s barrister answered, saying:”we’re entitled to know what he’s going to say.” The prosecution eventually disclosed that Nwamini would give prepared statement ready by this evening. This will be presented in court alongside the live video link testimony tomorrow. 