Convener of Northern Elders Forum (NEF), Prof. Ango Abdullahi, has warned that any attempt to subvert the conduct of a free, fair, and credible election will be countered. Abdullahi gave the warning at the ongoing General Assembly and 10th Anniversary Celebration of the Northern Elders Forum, held at Shehu Musa Yar’Adua Centre in Abuja, yesterday. He said the North had given its support and had “rubbed more backs” of leaders from other regions of the country without sentiments. He said those warning Northerners against their aspirations for the Presidency have no right to do so, as people of the region have a right to contest the office, as many times as they wish. The NEF convener also called for acceptance of whoever emerges at the end of the election without sentiments. He chided President Buhari over lack of political will to fix the problems of Nigeria, especially that of the North. He berated the administration, saying the North suffered more under Buhari’s administration, in terms of terrorism, banditry and negligence. He further cautioned those saying the North has no business contesting the presidential seat, explaining that the North has a four-year deficit. He said: “The Constitution is very clear that I can stand the election 20 times, and I can lose 20 times. But nothing should stop me from contesting elections if I want. “Then, when you look at it in terms of ‘do-me-I-do-you’, rub my back and I rub yours, the North has rubbed more backs than its back has been rubbed. Even if you are talking about the years in power, from 1999 till date, Obasanjo did eight years; Jonathan six, that is 14; Umaru two, and now Buhari eight years. So, I am being owed, even in the number of years, four years. “The issue should not have been we are not qualified to contest or we have no right to contest. Certainly, this is the reason we are saying that the issue in the Nigerian political environment, must be based on democratic tenets only. There should be no issue of reserving anything for anybody. If you win an election, you win on the basis of the thumbprint. If you win, we will accept.” 