Mercy Chinwo is a gospel musician and songwriter. The indigene of Obio-Akpor in Port Harcourt, Rivers State started singing at age eight as a member of her church’s children’s choir. Chinwo won the Nigerian Idol Season Two in 2012, which brought her to limelight. She has also worked with gospel ministers, including the late Sammie Okposo, Joe Praize, Buchi, Chris Morgan and Preye. Chinwo released her first single, Testimony in 2015 and Igwe a year later. She has gone on to release other songs with two albums to her credit, including Trust, Excess Love, Omekannaya, Correct, Rest, Imenem, No More Pain, Chinedum, Regular ft Fiokee, Bor Ekom, Incredible God, Power Belongs to Jesus, Oh Jesus, and Akamdinelu. In this interview with IJEOMA THOMAS-ODIA, she speaks about her career and releasing soul-lifting songs. You have an admirable career journey. How did it all start? 
It started at an early age of six when my parents observed that I was always singing and I loved to perform around the house to both people and even objects. They encouraged me by putting me in the children’s choir of our local church – The Apostolic Church Nigeria. It later developed into my singing with the adult choir and even as a backup singer. I got involved in a number of competitions, winning many of them. That’s how I started my professional music journey. A lot of musicians would say they started out in church. You did too, but why did you remain in the church?
A fish cannot survive outside of its source. Jesus gave me this gift and I am fulfilled staying aligned in God’s purpose for my life. There’s nothing compared to the joy and peace that comes with serving God. There’s a general impression that gospel music in Nigeria is not as financially rewarding as mainstream popular music. Do you agree? What has been your experience regarding profitability?
The blessings of the Lord maketh rich and adds no sorrow. This is my testimony; every aspect of my life as a gospel music minister has been an interesting journey. The more value you give, the more results you get. The global music industry has accepted Nigerian music, particularly Afrobeats with artists collaborating with international stars and winning global awards. In your opinion, how has this affected Nigerian gospel musicians?
I feel like the gospel music industry is really evolving and our minds are open to opportunities that glorify God both locally and internationally. We have seen collaborations happen in the gospel space at an international level and much more will come. So watch out. What do you think about collaborations between gospel artists and mainstream artists? Would you consider collaboration with a non-gospel artist? If yes, who would that be?
First of all, gospel music is mainstream. As regards collaborations, I have a message, so I will only be inclined to collaborate with artists whose values align with the message the Lord has given me. You recently got married. Has this impacted your career decisions so far?
It’s been a beautiful journey; marriage is a blessing. It has indeed impacted my career positively. The bible says one will chase a thousand, and two ten thousand and I am excited to see all of that become my reality doing life with my gee. Who are your role models in the industry both locally and internationally?
Musically I’m a huge fan of Tasha Cobbs and Michael W. Smith but above all, Jesus is my ultimate role model. You have a definite fashion style characterised by your beret. What inspired the look and how would you define your fashion?
I just needed to be different. I felt I needed to be unique with not just my craft but also my style. And that’s how beret wearing came about. It has now evolved into an online business at Mecempire on Instagram. In one word, my fashion style is modest. What are some of the life lessons you have picked up on your career journey?
I’ve learnt that many are the plans in a man’s heart but it is God’s will that prevails. This has helped me totally depend on Jesus in all areas of my life. Also, whatever it is you want to achieve, can only happen when you are intentional about it.