Adeleke declares holiday as IPAC expresses satisfaction
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has begun distribution of sensitive election materials to various local government areas in Osun, Ondo and Ekiti states ahead of Saturday’s polls. The distribution in Osun, which took place on the premises of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Osogbo Branch, was witnessed by the representatives of the parties, security agents, journalists and INEC officials. The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Mutiu Agboke, told journalists that the commission was ready for the poll, adding that ballot papers, result sheets and others would be taken to various local council secretariats. “What you see on the ground are the ballot papers, result sheets for the presidential, senatorial and House of Representatives elections. We will arrange and batch them to various local councils,” the REC explained. Meanwhile, the Osun State Governor, Ademola Adeleke, has approved Friday as public holiday for workers and other residents to travel for the polls. This is contained in a circular issued by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Teslim Igbalaye. FOR Ondo, the materials were moved from the Akure branch of CBN to the headquarters of each of the 18 local councils amid tight security. Armed men of the Nigerian police, who were at the distribution venue, cordoned off the premises throughout the period the exercise lasted. Acting REC, Oyekola Oyelami, disclosed that the process had been smooth with proper arrangements made on how the materials would get to the local councils. He added that, apart from ensuring tight security in the transportation of the materials, the commission would also monitor all the vehicles conveying them. While commending INEC on the process, the Chairman of Inter-Party Advisory Council Nigeria (IPAC) in the state, Adesanya Olaoluwa, said: “We are 100 per cent satisfied, and we commend INEC officials for what they have done. We have seen the sign of seriousness in them, and we are ready to follow them and play the game according to the rules. As INEC commences distribution of sensitive election materials to the 16 local councils of Ekiti, it has assured the residents that the general elections will hold as scheduled, urging the people to conduct themselves peacefully before, during and after the polls. Ekiti REC, Prof. Ayobami Salami, stated this during the distribution of the materials to the local councils. The REC, security agents, party agents and other election stakeholders in the state witnessed the distribution, which was carried out at CBN, Ado Ekiti branch office. Advising politicians and citizens to peaceful during the election, he said: “Political parties should be law-abiding and to charge their supporters to embrace peace, because anybody that tries to disrupt the peace during the election will have him or herself to blame.”