Download logo To celebrate African American History Month, the Embassy of the United States of America, in partnership with Generation 80, will screen the film Fences today at 6:00 pm, which will be honored by Ambassador Dr. Tulinabo Mushingi. Taking place at Cine.80, Rua Ramalho Ortigão, N.1, Alvalade in Luanda, the screening and discussion will explore the 2016 film adaptation of the 1985 Pulitzer Prize-winning play written by August Wilson. Starring Denzel Washington in the lead role, who also produced and directed, the film joins Viola Davis and other stars. Fences portrays an African-American family in 1950’s Philadelphia and the literal and figurative barriers faced by the characters due to the effects of racial discrimination. It was chosen by the American Film Institute as one of the top ten films of 2016 and was nominated for numerous awards, including four Oscar nominations at the 89th Academy Awards and two Golden Globe nominations. The celebration of African American History Month began in 1926 and coincides with the week of the birthdays of President Abraham Lincoln, signer of the Emancipation Proclamation, and Frederick Douglass, who fought slavery and became a social reformer following his escape from slavery. To this day, every President of the United States has established the month of February as a time to recognize the diverse contributions of this population within the country and in the African Diaspora.  In the annual proclamation to celebrate African American History Month, President Biden stressed that “we honor and continue the work of blackAmericans who have created a more just and inclusive democracy, helping our Nation move closer to realizing its full promise for all.” The U.S. Embassy in Luanda seeks to continue to promote diverse voices and representations of all Americans as we engage with diverse Angolans across the 18 provinces of this country with whom we share a history of resistance and resilience. For more information, please contact the U.S. Embassy Public Affairs section, via e-mail at PressLuanda@state.gov or by telephone at 222-641-000 Distributed by APO Group on behalf of U.S. Embassy in Angola.