Delta  State governorship candidate of Labour Party, Ken Pela, has restated his eight-point rebuilding and development plans, if elected governor of the state on March 11. He urged residents to vote for him to liberate the state, saying his government would enthrone righteousness, harmony and prosperity for all residents, away from the 24 years of waste the state allegedly suffered under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Pela spoke at the 90th birthday reception for Pa Omuru Simeon Adhemawa at his Owhelogbo home in Isoko North Council. He was accompanied by his wife; his deputy, Prof. Julie Nwabogo-Umukoro and her husband, Prof. Matthew Umukoro, and Isoko North House of Assembly candidate, Prince Oghenerioja Usie of Labour Party. Pela said: “Our country Nigeria is in need of change, not the fraudulent All Progressives Congress (APC) kind of change though, and we all have the opportunity to make this change on February 25, 2023. We have the opportunity to change this country for good, for the better. And the only platform to realise that is the Labour Party (LP).  Tell all your people, go out there with your PVC and vote Peter Obi, the man God has called to change Nigeria, and all Labour Party candidates, including myself in Delta state.” He said his vision is to build a better Delta, where righteousness, harmony and prosperity will reign, noting that fairness, equity, justice and transparency in governance are lacking, just as waste and corruption in the state’s governance are rife. He promised to create an environment where merit thrives. He added: “I don’t tell people I want to build roads, I want to build schools – those are the basic things that government owes you, the people, to do for you. Yes, government owes you those things by right; it’s not a privilege. I can assure you that under my leadership, Delta will have the best roads anywhere in the country. “But beyond that, I will engender prosperity with eight key drivers. First is that we will pay a living minimum wage and it will not be less than N100,000. That way, there will be disposable income to retool our economy. The second thing we will do is to ensure that our councils have fiscal autonomy. All the money meant for councils will come to them, and they will be used as centres of development. Council chairmen will be held accountable for money received. People at the grassroots will know how much comes to them and demand accountability.”