All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, has reiterated his commitment to creating an enabling environment for Nigerians, irrespective of ethnic and religious background, to live peaceably with one another without let or hindrance. Speaking in Abuja, yesterday, when leaders of Fulani communities (Ardos) from across the country, under the aegis of Fulbe United for Peace and Development, converged to endorse his presidential bid, Tinubu reminisced the cordial relationship between his late mother, Abibatu Mogaji, himself and Fulani inhabitants of Lagos State over the years. He expressed gratitude for the show of love and support for his ambition. The leaders expressed satisfaction with the antecedents of Tinubu and his plans for the country. At the event, which was held in conjunction with a socio-political group, Arewa New Agenda, the Fulani group said it would use its 33,661 members to mobilise millions of its people to vote for Tinubu in the presidential poll. Addressing the gathering after performing the kola-sharing tradition, leader of the group, Aliyu Bobboi, said with the sharing of the kolanut, the leaders would go back with the message to their people on the decision reached at the meeting. He noted that the gathering was an avenue to underscore their support for Tinubu and trust in his capacity to administer the country effectively, if he emerges victorious at the poll. According to Bobboi, the Ardos, as leaders of the people, have the final say on the position of their people and would follow it to the letter to ensure compliance. The group also conferred on Tinubu the title of ‘Barkindo’ (the blessed one), which they described as a revered title among the Fulani. Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, who spoke glowingly of Tinubu’s leadership qualities, described the Fulani people, who have lived peaceably with their fellow Nigerians, as endangered specie that deserves to be catered for and protected in the years ahead. Ganduje said Tinubu is committed to improving the livestock sector and the lives of herdsmen. Tinubu said: “Prior to this day, I never thought I would meet a Fulani man who speaks better Yoruba. That is very wonderful. This is the Nigeria that we want; we expect Nigeria to be united with one voice, sharing of culture and belief in one another. I want to tell you, if we stay here for the next five hours, it is the same story you would be hearing from me. Thank Almighty Allah. “We have had problems with herders. But I guarantee you today that the problem would be solved permanently. The blueprint is almost ready. We will plan with it. The world is fair and good for all of us.” Former Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Nuhu Ribadu, in a vote of thanks, expressed gratitude to the Fulani leaders and described Tinubu as a credible human being, who would surely match his words with action, if voted into power.