Saturday, February 25, 2013 is last opportunity Nigerians have to choose between the change they so desired or continue to wallow in pains, says the Peter Obi/Yusuf Datti Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) of the Labour Party (LP). Director-General of the PCC, Chief Akin Osuntokun, made this known at the weekend, at a Town Hall Meeting in Ado-Ekiti, while addressing huge crowd of party supporters from across the 16 local councils of the state. According to him, the coming election would determine whether Nigerians were actually ready to change their destiny and chart a new course for themselves. The former presidential adviser assured Nigerians that Obi’s emergence as the next president would end all the agonies they were made to face as a result of uncaring leadership. Osuntokun enjoined all LP supporters and agents across the country to build on the current tempo of mobilisation for Obi, whom he said would speedily address all challenges facing the country immediately after winning the poll. The Ekiti-born campaign DG said fproblems such as unemployment, insecurity, hunger, poverty, high price of fuel and food, strikes, among several others would become history. Earlier in his welcome address, LP Presidential Campaign Coordinator in Ekiti, Moses Jolayemi, had urged voters to troop out on Saturday to elect Obi and his vice to pilot the affairs of Nigeria, assuring them that the candidates and the party would not renege on promises made to them. He asked party members and agents to start moving from house to house to canvass for the emergence of Obi for a new Nigeria. Declaring that Obi would win Saturday’s election landslide, he advised Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to guard against manipulation of the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) by enemies of progress within and outside of the commission. His words: “It is crystal clear that Obi will win the coming election in a free, fair exercise, especially if INEC does not compromise the use of BVAS.” 