News coming out of Nigeria regarding insecurity is getting more depressing, as the country is presented as a regular or permanent killing field where life has, as in the Hobessian era, become nasty, brutish and short. Virtually every day, there are reports of more people being kidnapped, killed or entire community overrun and residents driven from their homes by Boko Haram or ISWAP insurgents. The insecurity situation across the country is not only worrisome, it calls for urgent attention by the government. At the moment, Nigeria is becoming a state where criminality has become a norm. If there is anything Nigerians desire, the most from the Muhammadu Buhari administration, it is for the President to keep his promise of not allowing Boko Haram insurgency and other forms of insurrection exist in the country. He had promised to end insurgency in the country within months of his government in office. Unfortunately, a few months to the end of the administration’s eight years in office, the President has woefully failed to walk the talk of securing lives and properties of Nigerians as rising trend of insurgent behaviour and insecurity has thrown citizens into anxiety and fear particularly with the forthcoming elections. In particular, kidnapping, as distasteful as it is to decent countries, has become the most thriving criminal undertaking in the country, all because the players are not visited with the right amount of official resentment. Only days ago, no fewer than 19 persons were kidnapped within hours across the country leaving family, friends and communities where the incidents took place gripped with fear as they cry out to security agents for help. As it were, most Nigerians no longer sleep with their two eyes closed, as unknown gunmen and bandits have repeatedly launched attacks on communities, public facilities and innocent lives, leaving in their trail deaths and destructions. In Nasarawa State for instance, gunmen abducted six primary school children on assembly ground in Doma Local Council of the state. Similarly, gunmen abducted a Catechist, Mr. Kefas Ishaya of St Monica Catholic Church, Ikolu Parish in Chawal Chiefdom of Kauru Local Council, Kaduna. Even before the dust of euphoria settled over the release of the 20 Edo train abductees, 15 persons were again kidnapped by gunmen in the state at Emokpe community. It is worth reiterating that for several months since the attack and abduction of more than 60 persons in the Abuja-Kaduna train route, nobody has been arrested. That fact is capable of encouraging the same or other kidnappers to engage in the impunity of abduction; and it is hardly surprising that similar abduction of train passengers happened in Edo. So far, the police have made a show of having rescued the Edo train abductees, but not much has been heard about arrest or prosecution of the culprits. The question is: who knows where next? It is shameful to note that the capacity of the security agencies to detect and deter crime is abysmal. In nearly all the cases of kidnapping across the country, the security agencies fail to respond promptly and appropriately. No doubt, security agencies contend with numerous challenges in the fight against insecurity; they sometimes blame their limitations on unwillingness or failure of members of the public to supply them with information. This should not be the case, but unfortunately, the public is not particularly excited to work closely with security agencies due to the risks entailed, some of which are quite unsavoury and discouraging. There ought to be deliberate and sustained efforts by the hierarchy of security providers to motivate members of the public and encourage enduring partnership in fighting crime and reducing citizens’ vulnerability. The public should in turn be more vigilant. Clearly, the pointers are that the Buhari government has run out of ideas on how to end insecurity in the country. In this respect however, the administration has not only disappointed people that were previously assured, the government has shown that it lacks the ability to deal with insecurity thus allowing crime and criminals to reign supreme. Government ought to aim at ending kidnapping and related crimes, instead of allowing the vices to become a big industry consuming huge public funds, and with no sign of abating soon. It is therefore, not sufficient for the Buhari government to proclaim the wit to fight insurgency; the government is expected to give assurance to the citizenry by acting out its words in action. While the police and troops deserve praise for their gallantry in the face of leadership prevarication, the efforts of local security groups in fighting against bandits and kidnappers in the communities are equally commendable. Certainly, the local security paraphernalia helped to douse the intensity of criminality and to boost the relative success of official security outfits. Otherwise, insecurity situation could have been worse. Therefore, it is high time state governors speak with one voice and work concertedly for the actualisation of state police. The obvious unwillingness of the Buhari led government to facilitate the creation of state police remains unfortunate in view of the embattled state of the present centralised police, and the growing audacity of criminals. Despite the fact that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC)’s manifesto on national security clearly expressed backing for states and local governments to employ state and community police to address peculiar needs of their vicinity, the party has failed abysmally to honour its pledge. Neither has it been able to galvanise its majority lawmakers to effect appropriate constitutional amendments for that purpose. Of the several amendments made in the 1999 Constitution, it is disheartening that there has been no provision to create state police. It is troubling that the country’s security operatives do not appear to be efficient in fighting insecurity but this cannot be for lack of valour on their part. Rather, the security agencies leadership should look into the area of adequate equipment and funding. Also, are there acts of sabotage within the military, and if so, have these been thoroughly investigated and remedied? Has the military been receiving the right support that would enable it defeat decisively the insurgents? Are there people in high and low places in government that are reaping off from the endless war on banditry, insurgency, kidnapping and terrorism? The government should endeavour to unravel these posers with the aim of fulfilling its primary responsibility to protect lives and property of the citizenry. 