Foremost Internet Service Provider in Nigeria, Spectranet, has appointed Maneesh Kulshrestha as its new Chief Executive Officer. Maneesh joins Spectranet as a visionary and transformative leader with over 30 years of professional experience in the Telecom and Retail industries as part of its strategic new growth direction. The appointment of Maneesh as the new CEO coincides with Spectranet’s latest business trajectory as the Internet Service Provider creating Unlimited Opportunities for Enterprising Nigerians. Bringing a wealth of experience and knowledge to the team, Mr. Maneesh Kulshrestha, CEO of Spectranet, has worked for companies like Reliance Group, Telenor Group, Roshan Group Afghanistan, Tata Group, Global Nortel and Matra amongst others. Maneesh is said to have a deep understanding of emerging markets such as Afghanistan and India. He joins the Spectranet team with a high enthusiasm to achieve great results in the Nigerian market. He stated that his mission at Spectranet is a synergy of network expansion and an all-around superior customer experience for users on the network. His words: “I am very excited to be here in Nigeria, and about joining this capable team. As the pioneer of 4GLTE in Nigeria, Spectranet plays as a frontrunner in the 4GLTE business, Fixed Broadband Solutions, Enterprise Business Solutions and VoLTE. I look forward to developing the business further with a clear ambition to prioritize high-value service delivery to all our customers. I am intentional about developing a high-performing team by fostering new benchmarks in employee and partner engagement. A happy and engaged workforce is key to delivering the best possible service to our clients. There will be no compromise on excellent service delivery and improved experience on the network. Under my direction, Spectranet will put customers first and create memorable experiences through improved processes and systems. A mission I intend to achieve together with the team!” Swinging into action, the new CEO has immediately launched a Monthly Partner Reward Scheme that would recognise and reward performing Spectranet Channel Partners and Dealers. At the recent inauguration of the scheme, Spectranet rewarded a total of six Channel Partners – four dealers and two super dealers, for their star performances in January. Speaking at the event, Kulshrestha stated that Spectranet commenced a new phase of growth in 2023 with a focus on all its business segments, such as, Fixed Broadband, 4GLTE Service, VoLTE and Enterprise Business Solutions. He urged customers and partners to expect a boost in the overall business experience at Spectranet. Ankotel, a dealer at the event, commended Spectranet for the initiative. “Being recognized today by Spectranet gives me so much joy. It shows Spectranet’s commitment to us. If I can speak for every dealer here, I will say that we are excited to be here today. We will always be here to “Do More,” she said. 