Abia State’s Labour Party Governorship candidate, Dr. Alex Otti, has promised the Nsulu Games Village, which has been neglected by successive governments, if he becomes governor of the state. Otti, who concluded his tour of Isiala Ngwa Local Council with a visit to the council’s headquarters, said his government would pay adequate attention to sports development and create enabling environment Abia youths need to hone their skills for the good of the state. Accompanied by his wife, Mrs. Priscilla Chidinma Otti, Otti made some stops at Nsulu and Ntigha, where he addressed the locals and laid down his plans for the people and their local council. The renowned economist and founder/promoter of Signature Bank Nigeria, told the highly ecstatic crowd that he would resuscitate the Nsulu Games Village, a major sporting facility in the area which had contributed immensely to the development of sports in Nigeria and Abia State in particular. He also declared his plan to establish a film village in Isiala Ngwa North, as part of his strategic goal to make Abia State a destination of choice for the Nigerian film industry, Nollywood. “One of the few places I mentioned by name in my manifesto is Nsulu. I said in my manifesto that I will establish a new Nsulu Games Village. “There is also a second project that I will execute in Nsulu. I am sure you know about Nollywood, maybe you would not remember that Nollywood started from Aba, on Pound Road, before it got to Onitsha and Nnamdi Azikiwe Street in Lagos. “There is no where in Abia that you have the kind of facility to produce movies. Most of the film makers go to Asaba, Delta State, to shoot their movies. So, what I intend to do is to set up a world class entertainment village in Nsulu on the back of the Games Village. The idea is to develop Abia for tourism,” Otti told the cheering crowd. The LP governorship candidate, favoured to win the March 11, 2023 election, said he was not running the election based on ethnicity or any other primordial interest, but because he is the only candidate, out of the lot, that has the capacity to turn address Abia State’s problems. “I am running this election on the basis of capacity, on the basis of character; so, anybody who thinks he has more capacity than myself, let him come for debate. If I’m convinced that he has more capacity, I will step down for him and support him,” he declared. According to him, even when he was not in government, he had done more for the Isiala Ngwa community, in terms of road construction, than the government of Abia. He said: “For over 50 years, there was no road connecting Eketa to Eziala in Nsulu. None. That road is 19.5 kilometres. Go and ask the people in government if they have constructed a single stretch of five-kilometre road anywhere in Abia.” 