All Progressives Congress (APC), Lagos State chapter, has distanced itself from  attacks on Labour Party (LP) rally on Saturday, describing the allegation as baseless. LP had called on the international community to hold APC and the Lagos governor responsible for attack on its supporters. This followed a viral video showing  LP-branded buses destroyed and the party’s supporters wounded, but the police is yet to confirm the authenticity of the footage. Publicity secretary of the party, Seye Oladejo, stated, at the weekend, that it was disheartening that LP could level such allegation without any substantial proof. According to him, APC remains the biggest stakeholder to ensure that there’s no breakdown of law and order in the state, insisting that its members were not involved in any attack. Oladejo urged the security agencies to do their job and bring those found culpable in any attack to book, adding that those who alleged must be able to provide evidence, identify suspects and leave the rest to security agencies. His words: “We read with amazement the baseless allegation of LP that the ruling APC was responsible for the attack of its supporters in Lagos. We abhor violence as a party. Everybody has the constitutional right to support whichever party they choose and we don’t think that should make for any kind of violence. “We don’t see LP or any other party as a threat. It is important to put it on record that every indication points to our victory in the coming elections based on the widely acknowledged great performance of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and other elected and appointed government officials during the outgoing tenure.” The party also said its members had no business unleashing attack on the opposition party, adding: “The state governor remains committed to the security of life and property of all Lagosians, irrespective of political affiliation. “LP will do well if it desists from needless blackmail and face the substance of the expectations of the electorate.” 