Minister of State for Power, Prince Goddy Jeddy-Agba, performed the ground-breaking for the construction of 2×30/40MVA substation on behalf of President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday at Ibiono Ibom in Akwa Ibom, The project, costing N6.8 billion is expected to improve power supply to the area in fulfilment of the president’s campaign promises to Akwa Ibom. “Contract for the engineering, procurement, and construction of the 2×30/40MVA substation at Ibiono Ibom in Akwa Ibom is expected to be executed in 18 months. “The project is a campaign promise fulfilled in Akwa Ibom. I want to thank the people of Idedep for donating land on which the project is sited,’’ Buhari said in his message to the ceremony. Buhari added that the project would improve service delivery and increase capacity to supply power to Akwa Ibom and neighbouring states. He stated that the project would strengthen the national grid by increasing its wheeling capacity to 25,000MW by 2025. The president urged Akwa Ibom to provide all necessary support and assistance to ensure prompt completion of the project. In his remarks, Akwa Ibom’s Gov. Udom Emmanuel pledged the state government’s support to the completion of the project on schedule. Emmanuel was represented by the Commissioner for Power and Petroleum Development, Mr John Etim. He commended President Buhari for putting politics aside to site the project in Akwa Ibom. “As a state government, we will give all the necessary support to ensure the completion of this power project,’’ he said. Earlier, Mr Philip Okpanefe, Assistant Director (Transmission), Federal Ministry of Power, called on the community to cooperate and assist the contractor to ensure prompt completion of the project. He warned that government would not be happy with the community for any delay after funds had been released to execute the contract. Speaking on behalf of the community, Sen. Ita Enang, former Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Niger Delta Affairs, said the project would enhance economic growth of the people. He explained that this would be so as provision of electricity would facilitate the operations of as small scale businesses. He charged the people to protect the project and cooperate with the contractors to complete it on schedule. Enang, also former Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly (Senate) commended President Buhari for approving the project for Akwa Ibom. He urged Akwa Ibom people to support the president and vote en-masse for the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Sen. Bola Tinubu and all APC candidates at the general elections. 