Ilana Omo Oodua Worldwide has urged the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Usman Baba, not to raise frivolous allegations against the Yoruba. The umbrella body of the Yoruba self-determination groups advised him to have recourse to history about the Yoruba people rather than forming unfounded opinions about them. The group, through its Supreme Leader, Prof. Banji Akintoye, stated, yesterday, that the amalgamation of the entity known as Nigeria was fraudulent. It restated its resolve to extricate the people from any form of bondage. A statement signed by Kunle Adelakun (Eruobodo), on behalf of the group reads: “Ilana Omo Oodua, a Yoruba nation self-determination organisation under the leadership of Emeritus Prof. Adebanji Akintoye, is unambiguously committed to Yoruba self-determination struggle for the liberation of Yoruba people from the forced marriage of the 1914 and the fraudulent 1999 Constitution of Nigeria being imposed on Yoruba people and the rest of the South. 
“Over the years, we have been resilient, but civil in our approach, while, at the same time, observing diplomatic mechanisms in line with the international laws and extant domestic laws.”  It added: “Our culture is very accommodating and without ethnic colourations or sentiments. We stand here today to reject entirely the allegations against the Yoruba people by the IGP, Usman Baba.
  
“The allegations that we, Yoruba people, are stockpiling weapons and planning to create chaos and social unrest during the coming general election slated for February 25, 2023 is false and unfounded. The allegations are absurd, as the Yoruba people are naturally known to be peace-loving.” We traditionally employ civil, diplomatic and non-violent approaches in settling conflict.” According to the group, the IGP needs to be tutored historically. “Perhaps, this would make him have an unsentimental understanding and clear judgment about Yoruba people. If we are to look into those who are behind the artificial crisis being inflicted on Nigerians (insecurity fuelled by Boko Haram/ISIS) and the destruction of farmlands, kidnappings for ransoms, invasions of Yoruba land, South East and Middle Belt regions, the Federal Government must give us answers, not the Yoruba people.
  
“The Yoruba people are exercising rights to advocate and canvass for sovereignty, an act which is protected under the United Nations and African charters. The right for self-determination is never against Nigeria or international laws.”