The Ndanekpa descendants, one of the ruling clans in the Adadu community in Toto Local Council of the state, have raised alarm over the alleged distortion of their family history by Asumburuku descendants, the current ruling house in the community. The ruling clan alleged that In October 2022, an Asumburuku descendant, Umar Musa, was installed as the Gbadu Adadu of the community, following the demise of Ibrahim Tukura in the year 2000. They explained that his installation came after 20 years of an internal family feud. However, at the installation ceremony, the Ndanekpa descendants accused the Asumburuku family of deliberately refusing to recognize the first traditional ruler, Ndanekpa Usman Audu, who is of the Ndanekpa ruling house. In a statement issued on yesterday by Muhammadu Gani, the Ndanekpa descendants also accused the Asumburuku family of attempts to change the Ndanekpa clan from Onyohu to Onyebu. The statement recalled that Adadu town was founded in 1637 by Ndanekpa Usman Audu, the son of Audu Maijaki, who along with his siblings, migrated from Yan-Tumaki to settle in Danja in the present Katsina State. According to the statement, his brothers – Muhammadu Audu (elder brother) and Abdullahi Audu (younger brother), left Danja area as a result of a leadership tussle and a quest for land ownership. The statement read: “The trio found themselves in Gwuzunu, and from there, they settled around Andaki Hill with their families. “The brothers and their families later discovered a desired land, and out of joy they exclaimed: ‘to gabiya bukata’ (this is the solution to our quest), hence, the name Itoto Gambiya was gotten”, Gani disclosed. He added that the three brothers shared roles and responsibilities among themselves. While noting that Muhammadu was made Nda-gbadu, the leader and chief, the statement added that Usman became Ndanekpa, the head priest on religious matters while Abdullahi was named Ikanna (the chief hunter and commander of guards.) “A women leader, Igyagu, an influential daughter of Muhammadu, was in charge of women’s affairs and market square (Onyohu)”, the statement added. “As time went by, some of the family members decided to explore the land further in separate directions, leaving Muhammadu [Nda-Gbadu] and others behind. “This took Usman Audu, Ndanekpa, Abdullahi Audu and Ikanna to the present place, later named Adadu. “So, Ndanekpa Usman Audu was the first Chief, Gbadu of Adadu and followed by his son, Ondoma Ndanekpa.” The statement explained that after his assassination, his younger sister, Zainab, who was the eldest in the family decided to make her only child, Momoh, the next chief of Adadu. “The move by Zainab was strongly resisted by Asumburuku descendants who claimed the right to produce the next chief of Adadu and not Momoh who was from a different Clan (Onyezima) and has no direct ancestral lineage to Ndanekpa of Onyohu. “The truce was reached between the Asumburuku and Zainab that after Momoh, the next chief should come from Asumburuku”, the statement added. When contacted, the newly installed traditional ruler, Mr Musa, denied the allegations, stressing that the leaders of the community would soon meet to discuss all the contentious issues. “What they told you is not true, but we will soon have a meeting, and when the meeting is over I will give you comprehensive feedback”, he said.