Pope Francis on Saturday will meet victims of South Sudan’s civil war, a day after delivering an impassioned appeal for the country’s leaders to recommit to peace for the sake of their long-suffering people. Francis is making the first papal visit to South Sudan since it gained independence from Sudan in 2011 and plunged into a brutal ethnic conflict that left the young nation divided and traumatised. Some 380,000 people died in five years of bloodshed before the civil war formally ended in 2018, with a ceasefire between warring leaders who remain in power today. But the country remains fragile and violent and Francis, who tried to broker peace between the rival parties, is visiting South Sudan as it lurches from one crisis to the next. On Saturday, the 86-year-old Argentine will address a group of South Sudanese living in a camp outside Juba who were forced to flee ethnic violence during the war years. They will be brought to an audience in the capital city with Francis, who has made the defence of migrants and those on the margins a pillar of his papacy. Despite a peace deal technically ending the war, conflict still drives people from their homes, and there are some 2.2 million internally displaced across South Sudan, according to UN data from December. On Saturday evening, Francis will hold a joint prayer with the Archbishop of Canterbury and the Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland, who are joining him in the country. He will also meet South Sudan’s religious leaders, who work with the poor and marginalised and are deeply respected in the devout country where 60 percent of its 12 million people are Christian. Human rights groups have urged Francis to press South Sudan’s leaders to address widespread impunity for abuses and deliver justice for victims of war-era atrocities committed on their watch. The stop in South Sudan follows a visit to the Democratic Republic of Congo, another resource-rich country plagued by persistent conflict and also often overlooked by the world. The visit — Francis’s fifth to Africa — was initially scheduled for 2022 but had to be postponed because of problems with the pope’s knee. The affliction has made him dependent on a wheelchair and has seen the itinerary pared back in both countries.