Inter-Party Advisory Council of Nigeria (IPAC) in Cross River State has given the Governor Ben Ayade administration a 48-hour ultimatum to retract alleged libelous statement it published against the organisation or face a legal action. This was contained in a statement issued by IPAC Chairman in the state, Anthony Attah, yesterday, in Calabar. The Guardian reports that the Cross River State Government and IPAC in the state had been at loggerheads lately after the IPAC accused the government of partisanship in view of INEC’s preparation for the forthcoming elections in the state. In a new twist, IPAC has accused the state government of attempting to polarise the organisation in the state following the alarm it earlier raised concerning the general elections. IPAC chairman further alleged that there were sinister plots by some powerful politicians in the state, in collaboration with the police, to thwart the will of the electorate in the elections, urging the public to be circumspect. “Expectedly, our last Monday press conference, where we X-rayed the security situation of our state vis a vis INEC’s preparation for the election was received as a bitter pill by the state government. In response to our position, the government of Cross River State published a press statement, where IPAC was labeled as paid agents of blackmail. In our well-worded rejoinder, we have given Ayade 48 hours to retract the libelous statement or face legal action. This ultimatum expired three days ago. “Another interesting development that took place last week was a fruitless and childish attempt by agents of the state government to subvert the rule of law and due process by parading a group of urban vagabonds, mentally retarded political neophytes to present to the public as new leaders of IPAC in the state. How laughable! “As we draw close to the next election, we want the general public to know that there are series of plans and strategies by powerful politicians in the state to ensure that the will of the people is truncated. With renewed pressure to ensure INEC doesn’t compromise the election, there are fresh plans to use security agencies, especially the Nigerian police to militarise the election,” the statement added. 