Father’s Day goodwill messages sent by the children of former Deputy Senate President, Senator Ike Ekweremadu were read out in court on Thursday, at The Old Bailey, where the senator, his wife, Beatrice, daughter, Sonia and fourth defendant, Dr Obinna Obeta, are standing trial for “conspiracy to facilitate and arrange travel with the aim of exploitation” of David Nwamini. Read as part of the evidence by the Crown prosecutor, Hugh Davies KC, alongside several other correspondence being exchanged between the Ekweremadus and others, including with Obeta, Diwe -the senator’s brother – and their travel agent, one Mr. Ibrahim, the messages were sent two days before Ekweremadu and wife were arrested on arrival at Heathrow Airport on June 21st last year. In one of the messages, Sonia, 25, for whom a kidney transplant donor was being sourced, wrote her father, saying: “l pray for long life that you may live long that you may be able to see your grandchildren. I hope that one day l’ll be able to take care of you and mummy the way you’ve taken care of us.” Replying, the Peoples Democratic Party, Senator for Enugu said: “l’ll spare nothing to ensure you’re out of this ” predicament. Also read was that of Sonia’s sister, Chidinma, who wrote: “In another life, l’ll still want you to be my dad.” Ekweremadu, who was just an arm’s length away from his daughter and wife in the dock, put his bundle of court documents away while those messages were being read. Davies, who had prosecution witness, detective sergeant Andy Owen, to assist with uploading and displaying the messages and many documents, told the court that: ” two days after those messages, “Ike Ekweremadu and Beatrice Ekweremadu arrived in the UK, having transited in Turkey from Nigeria. They are arrested. Same day, Sonia Ekweremadu is arrested at her address.” Part of the bundle of evidence tendered by the Crown also included how the family had sourced and lined up another prospective donor – Ikenna – for the kidney transplant to take place in Turkey. But ikenna was denied Turkish visa as he hadn’t been properly briefed on how to answer questions during the visa interview. After the prosecution rounded off , Davies said, “My Lord , it’s one o’clock .” Mr. Justice Johnson sent the jury home soon afterward. But before they left, he informed them: “we’re going to hear some live evidence tomorrow (Friday).” The court rose early to allow Sonia go for a session of her thrice weekly dialysis for her kidney condition. 