Political violence and disturbances have become part of history, says Abari … says general election activities overshadowing census awareness … Nigerians misunderstand the naira redesign policy Director-General of National Orientation Agency (NOA), Dr Garba Abari, on Monday, urged Nigerians to give the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) naira redesign policy a chance to work. He said that the ongoing political events of the 2023 general election are overshadowing the census awareness but the strategy is to continuously sensitize Nigerians on the exercise. Abari stated this in Abuja, at the press briefing on the forthcoming 2023 General Elections and National Housing and Population Census said political violence and disturbances have become part of history in the country. Abari said that from the feedback received from its field officers, it was gathered that a large number of Nigerians have a wrong perception of the new naira redesign policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). He said: “We have remained consistent in our social communication strategy by sending out messages of peace. In fact, going by the history of elections, political violence and disturbances has become part of that history. “Leaflets and jingles promoting peace and order have been sent out to various opinion leaders especially, the traditional and religious leaders to prevail on their supporters to shun violence. One of the leaflets ‘Say No To Election Violence’ has been translated into pidgin, Igbo, Yoruba, and Hausa languages. “The second one, ‘Let’s live together in Peace’. Our state and local government officers have been directed to include messages of peace in any sensitization outreach in their areas of operation. “As part of the effort to promote peace during the election, the Agency organised a successful political parties summit with the objective of sensitising parties on the need to comply with the new electoral act, discourage electoral violence and promote electoral security. The well-attended summit had representation from all the 18 political parties participating in the coming election.” NOA boss further said there is a need to redouble efforts towards creating more awareness of the naira redesign policy. He noted that the naira redesign will have a huge impact on Nigerians living in the communities, especially those living where banks do not operate and those without internet access. He said: “It was observed that there was a large number of people who misconceived or had a wrong perception of the New Naira Redesign Policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria. There is a need to redouble efforts towards creating more awareness of the policy. Some people were of the opinion that the time allocated for the change of New Naira notes is insufficient and many people can’t meet the deadline. “Commercial banks were not issuing the new Naira notes to the public as a result most People in the rural areas said they were yet to see the New redesigned Naira notes. People expressed concern over the non-availability of the new Naira notes in circulation which in turn affected their businesses. “It was also observed that before the deadline, some people commenced the rejection of old Naira notes which is contrary to the Central Bank directives. Members of the public observed that the Banks were still issuing the old Naira notes to customers.”