•Tizeti begins recruitment of graduate trainees Ten states, including Delta, Akwa Ibom, Cross River, Abia, Anambra, Imo, Enugu, Abuja, Kano, and Kaduna, are to experience new wave of Internet service provision following the expansion by Tizeti to the states, where it claimed that the demand for unlimited and cost-effective broadband internet is largely unmet.  Internet access in these states will also complement existing or new initiatives by the state governments, for eGovernment implementation, digital access, and investment promotions, especially as many states are implementing robust digital agendas.”
    
Tizeti said it will build brand-new, solar-powered, 4G-capable towers in these cities and leverage expansive fiber networks built by some of its partners, including MainOne and Facebook, to bring millions of people online, and deliver life-changing socio-economic opportunities that access to the internet provides. Tizeti is currently available in Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Rivers, and Edo States.
   
Tizeti’s Chief Operating Officer, Ifeanyi Okonkwo, said: “Tizeti was built to tackle poor Internet connectivity not only in Nigeria but on the continent as a whole, by developing a cost-effective solution from inception to delivery, for reliable and uncapped internet access for potentially millions of Africans.
   
“Our launch in these states will drive digital adoption, with huge implications for online learning, eCommerce, and entertainment. Interested users can pre-sign up at www.wifi.com.ng/signup as installations will start May 1st, 2023.
  
Ahead of this launch, the company plans a mass recruitment to fill up new roles across Nigeria. Tizeti is recruiting graduate trainees into different departments: Field Sales Engineering, Network Operations Center, Human Resources, Administration, Sales and Marketing, Finance, and Customer Service. All trainees must have a minimum of Second-Class Upper degree in relevant fields. Interested applicants can apply at www.tizeti.com/careers. 