Download logo Today, President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi met with Minister of Religious Endowments (Awqaf), Dr. Muhammad Mukhtar Gomaa, and Advisor to the President for Financial Affairs, Major General Mohamed Amin.  The Spokesman for the Presidency, Counselor Ahmed Fahmy, said the meeting tackled a number of issues, including the Ministry of Religious Endowments’ preparations for the holy month of Ramadan as well as its preaching and community activities. It also followed-up on the implementation of the President's directives with regard to the development, sound management and investment of the resources and assets of the Awqaf Authority for pubic interest. During the meeting, President El-Sisi gave directives to enhance efforts toward improving the conditions of imams and preachers, and to continue scientific and cultural training and qualification programs, in accordance with the latest systems and methods, so as to improve their ability to positively and realistically address issues at hand. This aims at strengthening efforts to keep-up with the developments of the times and engage with them in an enlightened and moderate manner, while maintaining the fundamentals, deepening the righteous understanding of Islam and its lofty purposes, and solidifying human values. The President was offered an overview of a proposal by the Minister of Religious Endowments with regard to the ministry's plan to give due care to the memorization, recitation, understanding, contemplation and interpretation of the Holy Quran. The President was also briefed on the course of the International Holy Quran Competition, which is held this month under the auspices of the President. President El-Sisi directed to give due interest to the outstanding and talented, and work on refining their talents, developing their minds, and improving their understanding of the meanings and purposes of the Holy Quran. The Minister of Religious Endowments presented the ministry's plan for the holy month of Ramadan, mainly its preaching programs, seminars and intellectual forums during the holy month. The President gave directives to hold these activities across the republic. With regard to the development of the Awqaf Authority’s revenues, Dr. Gomaa noted that the revenues continue to grow sustainably, achieving about 1.2 billion pounds, during the first seven months of the current fiscal year, an increase of about 13% compared to the same period last year. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of The Presidency, The Arab Republic of Egypt.