• Adebanjo appeals for unity among parties’ faithful 
Lagos State governorship candidate of Boot Party, Wale Oluwo, has stepped down for his Labour Party (LP) counterpart, Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour. The alliance was sealed, yesterday, at the home of Afenifere leader, Pa Ayo Adebanjo, who appealed to members of the two parties to work together. The two candidates said they were working together to dislodge the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state and return the resources of the state to the people. Speaking on the significance of the support, Rhodes-Vivour said: “This is a major alliance that is going to redefine governance in Lagos. We are two men that are passionate about Lagos; indigenes of Lagos that want to see opportunities presented to the people.
 
“Our state’s resources have been captured by the interest of one man, his friends and his family. We want to create a Lagos everyone will benefit from. So, this is a natural alliance we have been waiting for in a long time. We are going to work together, moving forward, especially on our desire to create funding that will be available for Lagosians.” On his party, Oluwo said: “Gbadebo and I are not just meeting today; we have been discussing about the Lagos struggle and how to free the state from the APC. So, this is something we are committed to, and by doing this, we have narrowed the numbers in the race. “It is not about my ambition; if anyone is still pursuing ambition in today’s Lagos, it means the person does not understand what is at stake. I had been in government before and I know how government runs and people benefit. So, I know when a government is not working well and we know how to solve the problems working together with Gbadebo.” 
 
The chairman of LP in Lagos, Dayo Ekong, said: “There is no doubt that this alliance is a step in the right direction. Every Lagosian should go out and do the right thing with their PVC and no one should intimidate them because it is their right. “APC has failed us in Lagos and the people are tired. They want a change and that change come February 25, 2023 will definitely happen.”
 
Meanwhile, Adebanjo, at the meeting, appealed to members of the two parties, especially in Ogun, to be united and work together for success. 