Sterling Bank, yesterday, denied claims by Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC) that it hoarded N258 million of the redesigned notes. It said: “The assertion of a ‘discovery’, as presented in the narrative, is inaccurate and misleading. It must be noted that no cash was ‘stashed’ in the vault of the regional office, and for emphasis, Sterling Bank has complied with all the guidelines on the distribution of redesigned notes from inception to date.” A statement signed by the Chief Operating Officer, Raheem Owodeyi, explained: “A monitoring team visited the regional centre of Sterling in Abuja on February 3, 2023. During the inspection, the monitoring team observed that the bank’s Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) were dispensing all denominations of the newly designed banknotes and also allowed customers to withdraw cash Over-The-Counter (OTC), in accordance with stipulated pronouncements.” Owodeyi stated that officials of the bank informed the monitoring team and officials of ICPC of the presence of the sum of N258 million in the vault, as the branch serves as a hub for the distribution of cash to other branches in the region. “The branches serviced by the CBD branch include Utako, Wuye, Seda Close, Kotangora, and National Assembly offices. This, along with additional information on the branch’s function, was captured in the statement, with a mention of the monitoring team’s visit to other branches to confirm reports reviewed and detailing the disbursement of cash.
 
“Upon their visits to the Utako and Wuye branches, the monitoring team reviewed the records submitted for the movement of cash from the CBD branch to other branches served within the region. It is important to state that cash was being paid OTC at the branches, and the ATM terminals were dispensing the newly designed denominations during the monitoring exercise.”  Approximately one hour later, officials of the ICPC, accompanied by the monitoring team, returned and invited two of the branch’s staff for further questioning at the ICPC headquarters in Abuja; the two bank representatives returned to their offices on the same day with no charges levelled against them.
 
The statement added: “Members of the regulatory monitoring team were informed of the sums contained in the branch’s vault prior to the inspection. These sums were confirmed with a review of the records as presented by representatives of the bank. The assertion of a “discovery,” as presented in the narrative, is inaccurate and misleading. “It must be noted that no cash was “stashed” in the vault of the regional office, and for emphasis, Sterling Bank has complied with all the guidelines on the distribution of redesigned notes from inception to date.” 