Eadris Vs 50 Cent: Young Buck, You Lied!
The brawl between once upon a time Nigerian music star, Eadris Abdukarim and American star, 50 Cent, inside an aircraft at the MM2 local airport in Lagos may have happened almost two decades ago, but the lies and half truths that have trailed that ugly incident do not look like they will go away. T4T had swallowed some of these lies from the camps of Eadris and 50 Cent, but the one that shocked him to his marrow was that of American rappper, David Darnell Brown aka Young Buck, a former member of 50 Cent’s G-Unit crew who was with the American artiste when the incident occurred. T4T saw a video online during the week where Young Buck was lying through his head about what happened that fateful day like he was the only person still alive that witnessed it. He claimed that when he and other 50 Cent’s crew members got inside the chattered plane, they met Eadris sitting on the seat reserved for the American star who was in Nigeria to play a three city concert organised by an alcoholic beverages company. Young Buck was truthful up to the point where he claimed that Eadris pulled a call through in the middle of the brawl and suddenly, a very big fellow appeared on the runway, walking towards the plane that was already taxiing to take off! That was not all. He said the pilot who was so afraid, stopped the plane and jumped out, abandoning everybody. He was trying to paint an incredible picture of how powerful Eadris was for him to be able to make a call and someone had to force a plane to stop within minutes! This is the first time in T4T’s adult life that he was watching someone lie without blinking. T4T was inside the plane when that incident happened. Another journalist, Olumide Iyanda was sitting beside T4T that morning. Yes, there was a fight between Eadris and his crew versus 50 Cent’s security. 50 Cent was just stunned watching the fight, he never got involved and not until a bottle was broken that the plane had to be evacuated by airport security. The pilot did not even start the aircraft and nobody walked directly at the plane on the runway, which made the pilot and his crew to flee! That must have happened in Young Buck’s dream. And just for the record, T4T was later manhandled by Eadris’ bodyguards at the departure lounge where everybody was evacuated back to; his shirt torn and phones smashed, after the Nigerian artiste thought he could get moral support and justification for his nauseating action, from T4T, who told him bluntly that what he did was “stupid”. Young Buck is 41 years, age has nothing to do with lying, but at 41, he should learn to be telling the truth, but sadly, it seems he is just a congenital liar! Meanwhile, the radio host in the video was so impressed with his lie that he kept exclaiming loudly.
Young Buck, Go and Lie No More! DSTV At It Again
T4T read in the news recently that Pay TV outfit, DSTV, would be jerking up its monthly subscription tariff from February 15. It is now a yearly ritual and of course, there is always a justifiable reason for that-inflation. There are truly ‘good’ reasons for any company in Nigeria to hike the price of its products (and services) at the moment, what with the high cost of petrol/diesel, weakening naira against the dollar… but the only problem T4T has with DSTV is, even with the yearly increase of monthly subscription, subscribers do not get value for their money. DSTV repeats literally every content, especially on its Africamagic and Cartoon channels. In fact, the annoying repetition cuts across almost every channel. If it were possible, the Pay TV company would have been repeating breaking news on its news channels just to fill up TV time. The question is, why do you increase subscription when you don’t acquire new and refreshing content? That is pure shortchanging of subscribers! Arrest of that actress by EFCC
An actress, Simi, was reportedly arrested by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, recently for not only spraying the newly redesigned (scarce too) Nigeria naira notes, but stepping on them also, at a social party. Well, for years now, spraying of naira notes at parties has been criminalised, so one can understand the reason for the arrest, but even people who made the law are seen daily spraying the naira at parties and nobody has arrested them. By the way, Simi did not do one tenth of what Obi Cubana and his gang did at his mother’s burial in Anambra State last year.
Videos surfaced online where Obi Cubana and his friends were playing football with thick wads of the naira. Obi or any of his friends were never arrested even by the Boy’s Scout. Conclusively, Simi did not do anything that is new. Today is Saturday, just drive through Lagos and other major cities across the country, you will see people still spraying the naira but because they are not Simi, that will make the headlines, nobody is arresting them. 
Abeg lef Simi alone, she is not the reason why the new naira notes are as scarce like the pee of a squirrel!