The Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) of Peoples Democratic Party has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) “to apply necessary precaution” before announcing “procured” presidential election results. A spokesman for the PCC, Dele Momodu, gave the warning in a press conference at the headquarters of the PDP campaign in Abuja, yesterday. According to him, the PDP PCC has is it on credible grounds that the All Progressives Congress (APC) “is currently mounting pressure in attempts to have their way to secure 25 per cent performance in both Imo and Ebonyi states.” He noted that the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, had, yesterday, urged the INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, to “instruct Collation Officers to upload results from the Polling Units to the INEC server, to avert those results from being compromised by some governors of the ruling party who were shopping for numbers to make up for their shortfalls.” Momodu alleged: “There is extensive ongoing manipulation of results in Katsina, Jigawa, Sokoto and Zamfara, among other states, where result sheets are being changed and uploaded. INEC must not declare any result until the Bimodal Voter Accreditation (BVAS) machines are verified. In areas where the PDP is winning, results are being cancelled.” Part of his speech reads: “To the supporters of the PDP, we want to specially thank you for the terrific work that you have done to put our great party on the path towards victory in the election and to assure you that the Recover Nigeria project is on course. “Through your incredible efforts, we are happy to inform you, our members, that we are doing extremely well in the Northwest and the Northeast. We are competitive in the South South and North Central. No other party has the kind of leading edge that we have in this election. “We urge you all our esteemed members to disregard the mind games being played by the APC. From our standpoint, the APC has no justifiable path to winning this election. Unlike the PDP, the APC lacks the spread, and unlike the PDP, the figures are not adding up for them. Therefore, we urge PDP members to be vigilant, remain steadfast, and be peaceful.” 