• State police command confirm killing, orders investigation
• Party urges INEC to shift Enugu East election over candidate’s murder The gruesome murder of Labour Party senatorial candidate for Enugu East Senatorial District, Oyibo Chukwu, yesterday, sparked off protests in the state as lawyers and judges in the five branches of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) in Enugu boycotted court sittings. The protest was to express anger over the killing of Chukwu, a former chairman of the association. Chukwu and some of his supporters, were, on Wednesday night, shot dead by gunmen in a white Hilux Van at Eke-Otu Amechi-Awkunanaw, Enugu, and were set ablaze in his vehicle by the assailants. He was said to be returning from campaign and was scheduled to be hosted by his Amurri Community, in Nkanu West Council. Apparently, in a bid to express anger over Chukwu’s murder, the five branches of NBA in the state, yesterday, gave security agencies in the state 48 hours to fish out perpetrators or wait actions from all lawyers in Enugu. Yesterday, no court in the state High Court, as well other courts across the state, sat. Judges, who were not aware of the decision, rose immediately the information got to them. MEANWHILE, the Enugu Police Command, yesterday, said it has begun investigation into the murder of Chukwu. Initial report revealed that the assassins double-crossed his branded Sienna car and released bullets on it. They, then, set fire on the vehicle and left. Sources said no fewer than four other occupants, who were members of the Labour Party, were burnt alongside. Confirming the incident, the police said, in a statement, that only the candidate and his personal assistant were killed in the incident. Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Daniel Ndukwe, added that the Commissioner of Police, Ahmed Ammani, had ordered intensified and discreet investigations, as well as manhunt of those behind the crime. SIMILARLY, Labour Party has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to postpone Enugu East Senatorial District election to enable the party conduct fresh primary. The National Chairman of the party, Julius Abure, in a statement, yesterday, gave a catalogue of attacks on the party’s campaigns and political activities both in Enugu and several other states.  He said: “The national leadership of Labour Party is disturbed by the level of attacks on its candidates, officials and supporters across the nation.” 