Management of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, (NSCDC), has debunked reports in some media that personnel of the agency are planning a mass boycott of the coming elections over the non-payment of their allowances for the Osun and Ekiti states elections. debunking the report in a communique signed by its spokesman, Olusola Odumosu, the agency said it is dedicated now more than ever to ensure citizens and the country at large is adequately secured to enable free, fair and transparent election. “There have been reports that operatives of the Corps plan to boycott the 2023general  election coverage due to outstanding allowances for 2022 Osun and Ekiti election coverage, the Corps wishes to debunk such speculations as thousands of NSCDC personnel will be deployed to every nook and cranny as well as critical national infrastructures not exempting the protection of Independent National Electoral Commission, (INEC), it’s staff and electoral materials, all in a bid to ensure a peaceful election,” the statement reads. the agency however said although personnel of the Corps that took part in the Ekiti and Osun state governorship elections in 2022 are yet to receive their allowances, the management of NSCDC has taken bold steps in ensuring the allowances are paid before the presidential election. “The Federal Government recently released Osun election allowances which are in the process of disbursement to operatives who participated in the election duty and it was also promised that the allowances for Ekiti election are in the process of release to the Corps. “The recently released fund was due to the commitment and passion of the Commandant General, associate professor Ahmed  Audi, to ensure that staff welfare is not tampered with.” it also noted that Audi was concerned about the payment of the allowances such that he set up an action committee, headed by the Director of Finance and Accounts (DFA), Mrs Comfort Danladi, to make necessary follow-ups with the federal ministry of finance in ensuring the release of the funds. “It is worthy of note that, the CG is very passionate about the welfare of personnel and would not fold his arms and allow personnel to groan in anguish, pain or very low morale in the course of carrying out their duties, especially in the forthcoming general elections”, it states. The NSCDC management also appealed to all personnel affected by the late allowance payment to Concerned personnel who are therefore urged to exercise more patience as the payment process cannot be completed in one day. The Corps, therefore, wishes to implore those attempting to cause confusion in the Corps not to waste their time and efforts as it will be an exercise in futility. “The Corps is a professional body and a regimented organisation with well-trained and highly disciplined personnel that have a full understanding of paramilitary doctrines and public service rules, and would not be coarse into engaging in acts of Indiscipline or sabotage against the nation. “Personnel of the Corps are educated and enlightened enough to understand that allowances are only added incentives to salaries and not a right and that sometimes, bureaucratic bottlenecks can be responsible for such delays.,” it concludes.