A group, Young Professionals for Tinubu (YP4T), has concluded arrangement for a football tournament aimed at drumming support for the presidential candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu. 
 
The two-day tournament, tagged YP4t, will begin today with eight teams from various zones of Lagos State competing for honours at the Police College playground, Ikeja.
 
Chairman of the group, John CDO Ikeotuonye, while announcing that each player will come along with his Permanent Voter Card (PVCs), as a way of encouraging youths to vote, described Tinubu as the best man to succeed President Mohammad Buhari. He noted that Tinubu has the capacity to turn things around and move Nigeria to prosperity. “We are organising this tournament to galvanise grassroots support for Bola Ahmed Tinubu, whom from our own assessment is the most qualified person to become the president of Nigeria come May 29 “This is a man who has built bridges across the nation with the capacity to assemble the best brains to turn things around and make Nigeria glorious once again. “I know that many people will be surprised that youths are championing this cause when they’re supposed to be planning to take over the mantle of leadership, but the truth of the matter is that we need to learn from the older generation before thinking of taking over governance and Tinubu, who has mentored a lot of people is the only one among the leading Presidential candidates in a better position to give youths a say in governance. Giving modalities for the tournament, the Technical Director, Bukky Ogundiran said that the competition would be on knockout basis, with penalty shootouts deciding stalemates. He said that the preliminaries would hold today, while the third place, semifinals and final would be decided tomorrow. He added that all the teams would get branded T-shirts and free transportation to the match venue. Winner of the tournament will receive N250, 000 while the first and second runners-up will get N150, 000 and N100, 000 respectively with each team that participated getting N50, 000, as well as other consolation prizes. Tournament coordinator, Alex Oware, promised an entertaining tournament, while assuring football lovers that it would make them to forget the current hardship in the country.