Assures of protecting nation’s maritime space The Nigerian Navy (NN) high command has said its warship; NNS Thunder only experienced brief distress and did not sink. Reacting to a viral video by a man on sea, giving an impression that the warship, a gift by American government to Nigeria in 2012 was distressed, naval spokesman, Commodore Ayo Vaughan, said the video is a mischievous attempt that can be used for political gains, hence, the command’s response. NN called on the public to jettison the video and advised people to desist from involving the NN in any form of politicking now and even beyond the coming elections.
“ The attention of the Nigerian Navy (NN) was drawn to the derogatory video circulating on social media platforms emanating from an unidentified crew member of a service boat, Motor Vessel (MV) pacesetter, stating that Nigerian Navy Ship (NNS Thunder) was under distress and MV pacesetter was dispatched to rescue NNS Thunder and possibly evacuate NNS Thunder’s crew or tow the Ship.
“In the video, the MV Pacesetter crew member lamented why a Nigerian Navy warship should be in such a terrible and helpless situation at sea, calling on Nigerians to vote for a particular presidential candidate otherwise the country will sink just like NNS Thunder,” the statement reads. He said it is pertinent to note that vessels could experience distress at sea from factors beyond human control, even after all necessary precautions are taken against such occurrences.
“On January 28, 2023, NNS Thunder was at sea proceeding for Exercise OBANGAME EXPRESS 2023, when she was reported to be experiencing water ingress from a screw at the Ship’s rudder about 30nm offshore Escravos. The Ship used her submersible pumps and crew to pump out the water. However, after several efforts, the Ship sent out a distress call to NNS DELTA, Naval Base Warri as well as other vessels within its vicinity for possible assistance.
“Consequently, NNS DELTA, Forward Operating Base (FOB) Escravos, which are NN units nearby, as well as Motor Tanker (MT) UGO and MV Pacesetter contacted NNS Thunder to render necessary assistance. Currently, the situation is under control as the Commanding Officer of NNS THUNDER has confirmed that the water ingress has been contained and the Ship is proceeding to Lagos as initially planned.” He assured that the Navy would focus on its statutory responsibility of safeguarding the nation’s maritime environment against all forms of criminality for naval trade and offshore economic activities to thrive seamlessly.