Presidential candidate of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), Musa Kwankwaso, has promised to stop persistent fuel subsidy, if elected president this month. He made this promise, yesterday, while featuring on South West Development Stakeholders Forum, held at Jogor Centre, Ibadan, Oyo State. Lamenting that some powerbrokers in the country were benefitting from the sleaze, Kwankwaso vowed to do everything within his reach to plug the loopholes. During his campaign at the Liberty Stadium, Kwankwaso called on the Federal Government to extend the deadline for the exchange of old naira notes by six months, to enable Nigerians fully comply. The NNPP presidential candidate said despite the trillions of naira committed to the fuel subsidy, Nigerians are still suffering to get the product at exorbitant rates. The former Minister of Defence under President Olusegun Obasanjo urged Nigerians to endure their sufferings till he takes over government and change things. His words: “NNPP is the party to beat. The All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are failed parties. They put the country through what it is passing through. Nigeria would be very difficult without a party like NNPP, a party that is well represented by Christians and Muslims everywhere across the country.” Kwankwaso also lamented the way Nigerian youths leave the country for greener pasture abroad, promising to address the issues making young people to leave. He also promised to address the issue of religion, economy and infrastructure, as well as local government autonomy.
“Local council autonomy is paramount to us. As it is now, most local council chairmen and other officials are doing nothing,” he added. The erstwhile governor of Kano State said his government would ensure justice. His presidential running mate, Bishop Isaac Idahosa, at the event, committed the country into the hands of God. “Kwankwaso is the one coming with truthfulness, determination and a plain mind to reform Nigeria,” he said. In his speech, the party’s governorship candidate for Oyo, Popoola Joshua, urged Nigerians to vote for NNPP so that Kwankwaso could transform the country. Joshua also harped on local council autonomy, which he said his administration, if he is elected in Oyo, would ensure. Meanwhile, South West leader of NNPP, Bisi Olopoeyan, urged the voters to get their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs), if they want Kwankwaso to win on February 25. The party, however, presented flags to its three governorship candidates in Oyo, Ogun and Lagos. It also presented flags to its 18 senatorial candidates across the six states of the region and candidates for the federal and state legislatures. 