The BAT Television has joined the rest of Nigerians in calling on the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to make available, required legal tenders across the country, especially in remote and unserviceable areas to cushion the effects of the hardship that citizens are experiencing. Making the call yesterday in Abuja at a media chart, the Co-Founder, of BAT TV, Maryam Ahman, regretted that the recent monetary policy by the CBN has further impoverished the masses, adding that the policy came at a time the country was struggling to win the war against poverty. According to her, if Nigeria fixes up after the general election, it has the potential to be one of the greatest countries in the world, adding that the country has a creative and vibrant youth and women population, vast natural resources, resilient people, a dominant diaspora population and an enviably rich cultural heritage. She further called on Nigerian women and youth to take up the challenge of renewing the hope of the land by actively participating in the forthcoming presidential election and to do so based on basic democratic tenets. “In an atmosphere of peaceful coexistence and unity in diversity, where a suitable governance structure is in place with leadership that prioritizes good governance and accountability, we can renew our hope and a new Nigeria can be born. “For the past eight years, the current administration has been battling with protracted national crises inherited from the previous administration. At some point, it felt like Nigeria was at the precipice and needed urgent actions to be taken to rescue it from a myriad of challenges. “However, through creative strategies anchored on an open and transparent governance model, a lot has been achieved to stabilize the country and return it to the path of growth and prosperity. “The present administration has invested heavily in critical infrastructure, agricultural development, security and accountability in governance. “Therefore, it is important to sustain and improve upon the current trajectory. It is against this backdrop of recent events in the polity that we at BAT TV have decided to collaborate with progressive-minded individuals to brainstorm on how to ensure that recent gains are sustained while fresh thinking is deployed to contain these challenges.” Adding: “Listen to the voice of reason and logic and vote for a candidate who offers renewed hope and in whom you are sure that accountability and equity would be sacrosanct.