Firm Offers 50% Discount On First Ride Founder and Chief Executive Officer, Vesti Technologies Incorporation, Olusola Amusan, has pledged his company’s unwavering commitment to providing tailored payment products for all users.
  
Amusan said: “The future we are betting on is a future where every human on the planet can move anywhere and be free to access both advisory services on education pathways and payment solutions.
 
“People will need to move from one place to another, either from workplaces or homes or vice versa. We love the opportunity to engage with Shuttler’s Solutions to experience a simpler, better way to commute.
“Vesti delivers hassle-free guidance and financial services to immigrants moving to the United States and other top destinations in North America and Europe.” 
 
Amusan said that Vesti’s vision is to be the go-to financial services platform for the next one billion immigrants and the company is on a mission to be the preferred platform for immigrants before they emigrate, providing information, community, and ultimately a smooth transition to immigrants.
 
In the same vein, Shuttler’s Chief Executive Officer, Damilola Olokesusi added, “I am excited about this partnership between Shuttlers and Vesti because both brands have a lot in common, the more obvious one being that we believe humans are fluid and need to move seamlessly. “At Shuttlers, we pride ourselves on being futuristic, which is evident in the globally-relevant transportation products and solutions that we’ve built. This partnership offers a glimpse into our vision to scale globally, and there’s no better partner to do it with than Vesti, a brand dedicated to ensuring financial inclusion for new immigrants.”
 
“As part of the partnership, Vesti and Shuttlers will make use of their collective expertise and existing technologies to bring the new promotional activities to market.
  
“To kick things off on a high note, all Vesti users will get 50 per cent off their first ride on Shuttlers as this whopping discount is accessible through a promo code available on the Vesti app.” 