A group, Nigeria’s Voters Watch, yesterday, asked the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to remove its Lagos State Resident Electoral Commissioner, Olusegun Agbaje, to prevent him from presiding over the affairs of the 2023 election. The president of the group, Dr. Stella Ford, who spoke in Lagos, said suspending or terminating his appointment outrightly with immediate effect would curtail and minimise the damages he has caused already by sowing seeds of bias, bigotry and doubt in the public space. Ford also urged INEC and law enforcement agencies to sanction political parties and their members who commit acts of intimidation, physical threat and verbal threats before, during and after the elections, while calling on the international community to consider revoking visas of such political leaders and deny them entry to the civilised world. “INEC withdrew 240 polling units and re-distributed same voters in those 240 polling units to other PUs across Nigeria, but unfortunately the electoral commission has not put enough efforts to educating voters on these changes and how affected voters can locate their new PUs “We urge INEC as a matter of urgency, to educate voters by sending SMS, Phone contacts and general public education. INEC should also display voter’s registration at least 10 days before election, starting from tomorrow to give voters enough time to verify their PUs. “Safety and security of voters should be taken very seriously by INEC in view of threats and physical injuries already suffered by potential voters, especially Labour Party (LP) voters.” The group also said INEC should, as a matter of urgency, withdraw any arrangement regarding the transportation of voting materials from private interested individuals nationwide to ensure safety and security of votes cast on election day. She explained, “The disturbing voice mail that has reached us and many people, including members of the press and law enforcement agencies where elected and appointive members of a particular party threatened their neighbours even with physical removal from Lagos if they fail to vote their party should be taken very seriously. Information reaching us is that the law enforcement agencies are looking into the matter.  We urge prompt prosecution immediately.” Ford also urged INEC to let Nigeria and Nigerians know what is the fate of Nigerian students who did not have the time to collect their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs), saying it would be a great injustice to disenfranchise a large number of the youth population. 