For many motorists and commuters, navigating through the Apapa-Oshodi Expressway, especially the Ijesha-Mile 2 axis, comes with a lot of pains and discomfort. This is mainly because of ongoing construction works and the traffic gridlock on the corridor caused majorly by articulated vehicle’ drivers who have turned the expressway into parking lots.  When The Guardian visited the illegal toll points, it was, our correspondent observed that the toll collectors always insist that drivers must pay before their vehicles are given access. When a driver refuses, the collectors usually rain a steam of invectives on such driver, alleging that the fellow was slowing down or delaying other vehicles from gaining access. At times, the boys would instruct the driver to park off the road in order to allow other vehicles access the toll.
   
In a chat with The Guardian, a motorist, Tajudeen Ogunlade, who is alarmed by the development, said that the introduction of multiple toll points is happening in spite of the presence of state and local council officials within those locations.
   
He added that each of the head of these arms of government promised to protect the interest of citizens and deliver not just dividends of democracy, but good governance, yet this is happening in daylight.
 
He continued: “Every time I drive through this area and at each of the points where I am compelled to pay to the toll collector, I feel let down and wonder if we have a government. A road that is not up to one kilometre in length, with a greater part of it being un-tarred with varied sizes of potholes, has four tolling points. And those we elected to protect our interests, including our lawmakers have not seen any reason to intervene to put an end to this illegality.  The Chairman of Amuwo Odofin local council, Buraimoh Valentine was called on phone severally to speak on the multiple tolling points and what the council was doing to alleviate the sufferings of motorists and residents. To date, there has been no response or official reaction from the council.
When the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Gbenga Omotoso was contacted on the issue, he said: “We are all government; if anybody sees something that is not good, let him speak out about it. The state government definitely did not ask residents to pay to use an alternative route. It is not official. Lagos State government is not part of it, so it will be investigated. 