Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate has distanced himself from “the sacrilegious image of Jesus being used by his opponents to discredit him and his campaign organisation.” In a statement by his Media Adviser, Mr. Paul Ibe, Atiku described the superimposition of his picture onto the image of Jesus as a mischievous and desperate effort by his All Progressives Congress (APC) opponents to use religion for political purposes, pitch him against Christians, and spread discord between Muslims and Christians. He noted that his opponents were behaving like a drowning person who would clutch at anything. Atiku said: “APC are exhausted because they have squandered their goodwill and even their campaign of lies and propaganda are not working for them, and Nigerians have seen the light enough not to be fooled anymore by such desperate last-ditch tactic of a soldier about to kiss the dust. “I’m not your enemy; your enemy is your own disastrous record in terms of security, education, job creation, unemployment and unity. Your own performance record is your own greatest undoing. “The 2023 election is a confidence vote on APC. Nigerians are wiser; using religion to divide the people can’t work. Suffering and hardship unite and galvanise people against failure and incompetence.” He urged them to pray for forgiveness for the sacrilege they have committed and also ask Nigerians to forgive them for the sorry pass they have put the country. Meanwhile, Atiku has promised to actualise oil drilling activities in Bauchi and neighbouring Gombe states. He stated this while speaking in Bauchi, yesterday, during the party’s rally at the Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa Stadium. He also promised to inject adequate funds for the empowerment of teeming unemployed youth and women, to curb restiveness and other forms of anti-social behaviour across the country. The former Vice President explained that transporting the discovered petroleum resources from the states would not be a problem as he has a plan to revive the rail lines that connected the Northeast with other parts of the country. He appreciated the warm reception accorded him by the people of Bauchi State and the peaceful conduct of the campaign rally. Speaking, Governor Bala Mohammed, expressed hope that all the party’s candidates would emerge victorious in the forthcoming general elections. Earlier the PDP National Chairman, Iyorchia Ayu, said the party’s presidential candidate has all the required experience to become Nigeria’s president, adding that if voted into power, PDP would correct the ills of previous administrations. 