   Lagos Polo Club, venue of the tournament, is known for hosting the most prestigious polo tournaments in West Africa, but even with its known high standard, last weekend’s was mind-blowing. Thirty-six teams started the journey for four major cups and a handful of subsidiary prizes, but the local lads, buoyed by an enthusiastic crowd, held sway, winning all the major titles and subsidiary laurels. Lagos Leighton Kings led the charge to the podium. Leighton Saopolo won the  high stake Majekodunmi Cup, Lagos Open Cup, Independence Cup and Dapo Ojora Memorial Cup. They were joined in the victory parade by new comers, Lagos Art Hotel and Trojan/ARK, who won the Oba of Lagos Cup and the Sani Dangote Memorial Cup to make it a clean sweep for Lagos. In the final week of the international event that featured top foreign professionals and the best of Nigerian players, Lagos GDF Global outpaced local rivals, Trojan/Ark and Golden Ranch from Kano to win the Low Cup and the Chief of Naval Cup respectively. Other outstanding teams at the polo festival were Lagos Dania A+, winners of Owen Cup, Tharwa team, winners of the Cancer Bowl, Lintex Intercontra, winners of the Italian Ambassador’s Cup. Bowale Jaolaoso, Muyiwa Oni, Baba Dantata, Kunle Tinubu,  Kayde Awogboro, Kaarl Alakija, among others, were also rewarded for their distinguishing performances. Among dignitaries at the event were Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu; Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo; King Diette Spiff, Oba Saheed Elegushi, Aliko Dangote, Abdulsamad Rabiu, captains of industry diplomats and thousands of enthusiasts. Speaking at the end of the competition, Lagos Polo Club President, Bode Majkanjuola, who described the tournament as one of the most successful in years, described the campaign for the Majekodunmi Cup, Open Cup, Low Cup and Silver Cup prizes as the most competitive and most exciting in years. He commended the corporate sponsors for promoting polo in the country, noting that the relationship between Lagos polo and sponsors over the years has had a positive impact in the development of the sport. Tournament Manager, Mayowa Ogunnusi, promised a better event next year, adding, “it was a three week of thrilling polo experience for the lovers of the game.” 