Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq on Wednesday inaugurated the over 2000-member Kwara State All Progressives Congress Campaign Council, saying that the achievements of his administration will ease their tasks across the 193 political wards in the state. “As a government, we have made your job easy because of what we have done in every part of the state. We met dilapidated structures across the state in primary health and education, poor infrastructure, and lack of water supply. We have gone very far to overcome that. We have done exceedingly well across sectors,” AbdulRazaq said, as he inaugurated the council alongside other party leaders, including Deputy Governor Kayode Alabi. “We have stabilised things, and the next few years will serve to consolidate on our achievements and position our state for greatness and further empower our people positively, especially young people and women. “The previous governments couldn’t even pay salaries, pensions, and gratuities in spite of huge funds that they received. Within the last two months, we have paid about N6bn to clear salary arrears, pensions, and gratuities for 2009, 2010, and now 2011. “We will continue to upscale on what we have done in the areas of health, education, agriculture, road infrastructure, and social safety net.” AbdulRazaq congratulated all members of the council for their nomination by the party and charged them to consolidate on the success recorded in 2019. “You are charged to deliver our party just as you did in 2019. The immediate challenge is to deliver Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the next president of Nigeria. Then, you must deliver all our senators and House of Representatives members on the 25th of February, 2023. You should also deliver all our candidates in the March 12 governorship and House of Assembly elections,” AbdulRazaq said. AbdulRazaq also encouraged the youths to learn from the experiences and guidance of elders to guarantee the success of the party. State chairman of APC, Prince Sunday Fagbemi, urged members of the council to work assiduously for the victory of the party at all levels in a peaceful and orderly manner. “We do not want violence in this election. Go about your campaign peacefully. We do not believe in violence because our party is not known for that. We commend the police for their prompt action, which led to the arrest of a member of the opposition who nearly disrupted our campaign recently in Ilorin,” he said. Speakers at the inauguration included Senators Sadiq Umar and Lola Ashiru; Kwara Central Senatorial district candidate and Turaki of Ilorin Mallam Saliu Mustapha; House of Representatives candidates Raheem Adewuyi, Yinka Aluko, Mukhtar Sagaya, Dr Ahmed Adamu Saba; and Speaker Kwara State House of Assembly Engr Yakubu Danladi Salihu; and Director General of the Campaign Council Alhaji Yahya Seriki. They urged members of the party to see their appointments as call to duty and those not on the list to see themselves as part of the project. They said the victory of APC will the continuation of more good things to come to Kwara State.l, adding that it is a project that all must work together to win. All members of the party must see themselves as campaign managers and deliver their respective polling units and wards, the chieftains said. They said the administration of AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq has been good for everybody and every community, thereby making things easier for the party in the state. The chieftains said what the Governor has done is evident across various rural communities, adding that the statistics are improving in health and education and the likes and patriots will not allow Kwara to go back to retrogressive old days. 