 Vertiv (www.Vertiv.com) (NYSE: VRT), a global provider of critical digital infrastructure and continuity solutions, today introduced the Vertiv™ Liebert® GXE (https://apo-opa.info/3KnuYjB), an online double-conversion single-phase uninterruptible power supply (UPS) available in 6 and 10 kVA power ratings in tower or rackmount configuration. The system is designed to provide reliable power to distributed IT networks and edge computing applications in various industry segments such as enterprise, government, manufacturing, finance, education and retail. ​The product is globally available for countries and organizations using 230V solutions and is now shipping from stock in Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA).  The Liebert® GXE performs with high efficiency up to 94% in online mode and up to 98% in ECO mode, driving energy and operational costs savings compared to other models available on the market. The high output power factor of 1.0 enables continuous and reliable power to more connected devices, protecting them against many disturbances in the AC mains with the online double conversion technology and the input surge protection.​ The flexible rackmount or tower form factor, with rackmount kits included as a standard, facilitates stock management for distribution in the IT channel and simplifies installation to accommodate various micro data center and edge computing needs. The unit’s runtime can be extended with up to four external battery cabinets (EBC) for longer back-up protection, and the hot-swappable VRLA batteries can be easily replaced by users without the assistance of skilled personnel and without shutdown of the loads for smoother operations and minimized maintenance costs. Additionally, the Liebert GXE has an integrated 4 Amps charger providing quick battery recharge up to 90% in just 3 hours that can be critical in case of frequent mains failures, and an integrated battery management system to optimize battery life and recycling. The Vertiv™ Liebert® GXE includes a user-friendly LCD color display that makes it easy and intuitive to use. The unit offers remote monitoring capabilities for quick and easy access to IT infrastructure, through the optional Vertiv™ Liebert® Intellislot™ Unity Communications  (https://apo-opa.info/3EL0HYr) card and a free download of Vertiv™ Power Insight software. Moreover, customers can also rely on Vertiv™ LIFE™ Services (https://apo-opa.info/3EnxVMW) to support remote maintenance and servicing of the UPS for maximum availability. “IT channel distributors and resellers are constantly looking for efficient and cost-effective solutions to protect small and micro IT sites against power outages,” said Andrea Ferro, vice president channel, IT & edge applications for Vertiv in EMEA. “This latest addition to our IT channel portfolio provides all the key features and performance capabilities needed in an online double conversion UPS for an affordable price, which allows small and medium businesses of all industries to leverage the latest technologies and accelerate their digital transformation journey.” Vertiv channel partners can take advantage of a complete range of warranty extensions and service programs specifically designed for single-phase UPS systems, which can be renewed so as to cover the entire lifecycle of the product. Vertiv service programs are available in a selection of countries, check Vertiv.com for specific country availability or contact your local representative. As part of Vertiv’s IT channel portfolio, the Liebert GXE enables EMEA resellers in participating countries to earn points through the Vertiv Incentive Programme (VIP) (https://apo-opa.info/3XGeeqE), which allows partners to easily win rewards without the need for any reporting. Bonus points are uploaded into the Vertiv Partner Portal monthly, and the partner only needs to log in to redeem them. For more information about Vertiv and its channel portfolio, visit www.Vertiv.com. Click on “Partners” and “Apply Now” to take full advantage of what Vertiv has to offer. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Vertiv. Media Contacts: 
Rania El Rafie
E Rania.Elrafie@apo-opa.com  Astha Batra
E Astha.Batra@vertiv.com About Vertiv:
Vertiv (NYSE: VRT) brings together hardware, software, analytics and ongoing services to enable its customers’ vital applications to run continuously, perform optimally and grow with their business needs. Vertiv solves the most important challenges facing today’s data centers, communication networks and commercial and industrial facilities with a portfolio of power, cooling and IT infrastructure solutions and services that extends from the cloud to the edge of the network. Headquartered in Westerville, Ohio, USA, Vertiv does business in more than 130 countries. For more information, and for the latest news and content from Vertiv, visit www.Vertiv.com.  Forward-Looking Statements:
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27 of the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act. These statements are only a prediction. Actual events or results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements set forth herein. Readers are referred to Vertiv’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and any subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for a discussion of these and other important risk factors concerning Vertiv and its operations. Vertiv is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.