This age in which we live could hardly be described as conducive to a sensitiveness of the needs of others. We have developed a veneer of sophistication and hardness. Abraham Lincoln, once said, characteristically, “I am sorry for the man who can’t feel the whip when it is laid on the other man’s back.” Much of the world is calloused and indifferent toward mankind’s poverty and distress. This is due largely to the fact that man is selfish by nature and for many people there has never been a rebirth. Nigerians are frustrated by the economic, social and political situation in the country. People are frustrated by poverty, inequality, perceived injustice, illiteracy, youth unemployment, hunger, corruption, human rights abuse and insecurity. But these facts should not elicit violence from each and every one of us. It is never a good reason to cause ‘katakata’ and disrupt the 2023 upcoming polls. Nigerians will go to the polls in less than two weeks amidst a host of economic, environmental and security challenges. Many regions of the country are confronted with rampant insecurity. Some weeks ago, attacks and violence targeted at the personnel and assets of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) were on the increase and solution was far-fetched. Violence is a means of voter suppression, and as long as people don’t see themselves as safe, they will likely not come out to vote for their desired candidate. Election won through violence, and other authoritarian undermines the representative nature of democracy. Elections are the hallmark of democracy; they serve the purpose of peaceful change in government and confer political legitimacy on the government. Elections represent the expression of the sovereign will of the people. However, the conduct of elections in a plural society like Nigeria is often fraught with animosities and violence. The last election conducted on November 6, 2021 in Anambra State was marred by violence especially during the campaigns. Anambra State recorded several incidents of electoral violence in 2021. The Governor of Anambra State, Prof C.C Soludo has urged the electorate to bear in mind that development does not bear any party logo. The distinguished Senator, representing Anambra South Senatorial zone, in his ‘Secure South Project’ recalled that after Governor Soludo was sworn in as the governor, he called for synergy and partnership amongst all the elected members of the Upper and Lower Chamber of the National Assembly; party affiliation and differences notwithstanding.   Governor Soludo’s idea of “Development Politics” tackles the weaknesses of partisan politics. It hinges on development as a collective responsibility. Governor C.C Soludo in his last political tour to Nnewi lamented that violence and gunmen attack could not allow his campaign in Nnewi South in 2021. He equally bemoaned how his campaign train took to their heels in Ihiala and the killing of his 3 personal security orderlies at the Isuofia Civic Center. The upcoming election can only be credible if all forms of electoral violence are eliminated and people are allowed to exercise their franchise. Tears are already in the eyes of Nigerians as hardship and suffering has become their daily ordeal. Poverty, they say, is the worst form of violence but Nigerians are hopeful and expectant. The Federal Government of Nigeria which has the biggest responsibility in ensuring a violent-free elections have never lived up to expectations. Nigeria has relevant laws to curb electoral violence but the implementation and enforcement of these laws should be a priority.   Political parties, civil society groups and the media should play their roles. INEC has assured that any snatched BVAS machine would be deactivated. We commend the Nigerian Army for arresting thugs in Lagos and at the same time condemning the attack on the supporters of a political party in Lagos. The time for general elections in a country is not a good time to protest or agitate for denied rights and opportunities. The Igbos could in trying to get the good become enemy of the best. So many things have taken place in the past through inciting and provocative comments both from North and South. So far in Nigeria’s history, no one has been prosecuted for perpetrating violence during elections. And this is a very ugly trend. A peaceful election is crucial to the country’s cohesion and to its credibility in discouraging unconstitutional seizures of power elsewhere in Africa. A violent or disputed vote could aggravate Nigeria’s governance challenges and diminish its stature as a democratic leader on the continent. All the political stalwarts and bigwigs in the country have been warned to desist from political thuggery and promotion of cult activities or face the full weight of the law. Some weeks to the Presidential election, the Nigerian Broadcasting Commission has sanctioned ‘Arise TV and TVC stations’ for promoting and broadcasting hate speech. The Presidential flagbearer of Labour Party, Mr. Peter Obi, has at the beginning of campaigns, counselled his supporters not to respond to insults, bully or attacks on him. He called for tolerance and understanding amongst his supporters. Amid widespread insecurity, there has been an uptick in election violence, which could escalate further during and after the polls. Who knows whether the scarcity of cash and high cost of petrol will affect the elections negatively? Nigeria democracy faces another crucial test. Presidential, parliamentary, state gubernatorial and assembly elections are scheduled for 25 February and 11 March 2023. The security forces should step up operation against armed groups and to protect electoral commission offices nationwide. Violence is one of the recurrent features of Nigeria’s electoral history and democratic journey since independence in 1960. The country invariably sees an escalation of violence in the period before, during, and after elections. In conclusion, Nigerian politicians can always emulate Ghandhi and his struggle for non-violence. The world remembers Ghandhi not just for his passionate adherence to the practice of non-violence and supreme humanism, but as the benchmark against which we test men and women in public life, political ideas and government policies, and the hopes and wishes of our shared planet. We can say No to violence! We must desire to secure a culture of peace, tolerance, understanding and non-violence. Non-violence is the greatest force at the disposal of mankind. It is mightier than the mightiest weapon of destruction devised by the ingenuity of man. Political violence is the deliberate use of power and force to achieve political goals. (WHO, 2002) Political violence is characterized by both physical and psychological acts aimed at injuring or intimidating populations. Nonviolent action is not an attempt to avoid or ignore conflict. It is one response to the problem of how to act effectively in politics, especially how to wield powers effectively. Non-violence and truth are inseparable and presuppose one another. We may never be strong enough to be entirely nonviolent in thought, word and deed. But we must keep nonviolence as our goal and make strong progress towards it.
Toochukwu wrote from Holy Child Secondary School, Isuofia. 