Dangote Industries Limited (DIL) has signed an agreement with China’s Sinoma International Engineering to build a six million tonnes per annum cement plant in Itori, Ogun State. The agreement was signed by the Chairman of Dangote Cement Plc, Aliko Dangote, alongside the Group’s Executive Director, Strategy, Capital Projects & Portfolio Development, DIL, Devakumar Edwin, while China Sinoma Engineering was represented by its Group President, Yin Zhisong, and the company’s Chairman, Liu Renyue. Dangote, while speaking at the signing ceremony, said that the new integrated cement plant at completion, will strengthen the local production capacity of Dangote Cement, bringing its local capacity to 41.25 million tonnes yearly and total African capacity to 57.6 million tonnes yearly. He said the Itori Cement Plant would equally  increase Nigeria’s capacity to export cement, thereby, enabling more diversification and foreign exchange inflows for the economy. According to Dangote, the project is further expected to develop the domestic economy by creating thousands of indirect and direct jobs and driving economic development in the Itori axis. He added that constructing the new cement plant is in line with Dangote Group’s vision of producing locally goods that were formally imported despite the abundance of raw materials for local production of such goods. He described Sinoma as a strategic partner who has been instrumental to the success of key projects in Dangote Group. He said, “We are comfortable working with your company. You have handled some of our key projects and I am positive that this project will be completed as scheduled. Group President of China Sinoma Engineering, Yin Zhisong, expressed satisfaction with the commitment and determination of the Dangote Group in building cement plants across Africa. He said: “It is an honour for us to build another cement plant for Dangote Group. We are proud and happy to be on this journey with the company again. When operational, the plant is expected to have two Lines x 6,000 TPD Clinker Production with an installed daily total capacity of 12,000 TPD of Clinker production. It is expected to be completed within 27 months with best-in-class equipment in the cement industry, sourced from Europe’s major equipment suppliers. The plant will have its own captive power plant to generate electric power for use by cement kilns and other production processes. The Itori Cement Plant will be Dangote Cement’s fourth cement plant constructed as a green field project in Nigeria, the rest are Obajana, Ibese and Okpella Plants.