Azeez Jagun, better known as DJ Flava on the Nigerian and international music scene, has a passion for two things that define his life; music and fashion. And not only has he been able to find outlets to express them but he has done a damn good job of it. Unlike many of his peers out there, DJ Flava says he is different as his style is multi-dimensional. DJ Flava Hear him: “ I am an international multi-genre DJ. I specialize in all kinds of sounds, music and genres alternating from Hip-hop to Afrobeats, Amapiano, House, RnB and the list goes on. I play at international gigs, festivals, carnivals, weddings and so on. “I host and play from time to time at diverse clubs in Dubai, the United Kingdom, Malaysia, Indonesia, Tanzania, Zimbabwe, Zambia, Myanmar, South Africa, Uganda, Rwanda, Turkey, Georgia, Cyprus, Mozambique and the list goes on. DJ Flava is proud of what he has achieved in his career as a disc jockey. According to him, he has played around the world in over 25 countries. He said the experience of being immersed in different cultures of the world sharpened his craft as well as defined his other passion, which is fashion. For him, music and fashion have a deep artistic connection and he has brought that to bear on his style, either as a disc jockey or fashion designer. “My clothing line celebrates pop culture with the inclusion of themed street style. I have always loved music and fashion since middle school,” he says. He said he launched his endorsed clothing line, @flavamusic_merchandise 8 years ago, alongside his personal account, @deejay_flava. “I have over time fashioned different collections with social and environmental themes, and culture appreciation themes and all my collections are available on Instagram @flavamusic_merchandise as well as my personal account, @deejay_flava. “I recently re-created my winter all-over logo tracksuit in white and black colours with a touch of street style. I also buy and sell cars internationally and have them delivered at various locations across the world. As for my clothing line, we take orders and deliver across the world. Orders can be placed through our Instagram pages. Our prices are unbeatable, and we are uniquely the best clothing brand you can find. We always go the extra mile to get our products to our customers and to rise above their expectations. DJ Flava was born in Lagos, Nigeria and is currently based in Dubai, UAE. 