Download logo Cattle raids and conflicts between cattle keepers and farmers along the border dividing the states of Warrap and Western Bahr El Ghazal are common during the seasonal migration of the animals as they search for pasture and water. To handle disputes occurring in the Warbet and Pagol areas, a joint special mobile court has been set up.  “The (first) deployment of the court (in 2021) has definitely improved the security situation. Kuajena and Pagol payams [small, administrative divisions] have not engaged in conflict for a long time, which has made previously displaced people return home,” said Ariath Nhial, Paramount Chief of Pagol Payam, as the new incarnation of this dispensary of justice was inaugurated. The mobile resumed operations in Warbet following the end of the annual cattle migration between the two states. It will investigate cross-border incidents during the seasonal cattle movement that have taken place from 2020 onwards. “As members of the community, we strongly support the court to bring criminals to justice,” avered Alek Arik Alek, a female representative from Pagor. “The big turnout at the launch demonstrates the cooperation and unity between the people of Pagor and Warbet,” she added. The United Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS) and the International Organisation for Migration (IOM) support the mobile court both logistically and with technical skills to facilitate its operation. Speaking on behalf of UNMISS, Anastasie Mukangarambe, Head of the mission’s Field Office in Kuajok, urged the state governments to extend their cooperation to the court. “For sustainability, we believe that it is essential that the two state governments find ways to continue executing cases arising from seasonal migrations by making the best possible use of existing internal mechanisms,” she said. The Joint Special Mobile Court will stay in Warbet until the end of February and will then be deployed to Raja County in early March. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of United Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS).