Ijaw National Congress (INC) has condemned what it described as “disturbing violent incidents” during campaigns in some parts of Rivers State, particularly in Ijaw land. The group spoke as political parties intensify campaigns for the February 25 and March 11 elections. President of the INC, Prof. Benjamin Okaba, made the condemnation at a press briefing at the Ijaw House, Yenegoa, Bayelsa State at the weekend. Okaba said the group frowns on political violence and brigandage in the state.  He regretted that some of the acts of violence were targeted at individuals with a view to “snuffing life out of them”, alleging that many have sustained injuries and properties destroyed. He said the INC, which is the apex socio-cultural organisation of Ijaw people worldwide, was particularly piqued by the attack on the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in the state, Tonye Cole, and his entourage in Port Harcourt and Opobo respectively. “A highly distinguished Ijaw son and governorship candidate of the APC, Tonye Cole, was, three weeks ago, attacked by armed political thugs and his campaign rally violently disrupted at the Ojukwu Field in Mile One, Diobu, Port Harcourt. “Again, precisely on January 31, 2022, the peaceful and ancient Ijaw town of Opobo in the Opolo clan of the INC-Eastern Zone was turned into a theatre of violence in an alleged attempt to stop Tonye Cole from freely campaigning for votes that day. “An illustrious Ijaw son and governorship candidate of the Accord Party, Chief Dumo Lulu-Briggs, was violently prevented from purchasing essential gift items at a market in Bonny Kingdom. A few days later, he narrowly escaped being killed during a rally in Igbo-Etche.,” he said. He recalled that Abe, a notable Ogoni son and governorship candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), was attacked in Degema, Oyigbo, Tai, and Okrika councils and in Port Harcourt City Council. His also recollected that Abe’s campaign train was ambushed in Ahoada-West Council while on their way to Akinima for a rally only last week. “The INC strongly condemns these grave acts of electoral violence perpetrated in Rivers State because they are barbaric, unacceptable, reprehensible, inhuman and anti-democratic,” he said, stressing: “It is crystal clear they are all aimed at intimidating opponents and instilling fear to pave the way for the manipulation of the voting process.”