The National Orientation Agency (NOA), on Tuesday, charged members of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) to make it a point of duty to study, understand and consciously practise the seven core values and patriotism of the nation as enshrined in the nation’s constitution. It said that the mass of citizens is loaded with energy, ideas, foresight and creativity which can be harnessed for a positive impact on society. Director-general, NOA, Garba Abari, gave this charge at the recognition ceremony for members of the 2022 breach A stream 2 of the NYSC Generation for Societal Change (GSC), a sub-Community Development Service (CDS) group for its huge impact in the areas of sensitization campaigns in FCT in line with the Agency’ mandates. He said: “The youth Corps Members in this group commit themselves to the cause of positive value reorientation in their host community, propagating the National Core Values of Discipline, Integrity, Dignity of Labour, Social Justice, Religious Tolerance, Self-Reliance and Patriotism. It must be noted that their dedication and selflessness to this cause have been very commendable. “We recognize your enormous contribution to the development of the community in which you have served, I urge you to see it as a call to greater patriotic service to your country, even as you prepare to pass out of the NYSC scheme into the larger society. “Continue to be a shining example of dedication, selflessness and love of country to your compatriots. Always remember you are ambassadors of NOA and never divest yourselves of the values you have imbibed in the course of your youth service. “By sustaining these values, you will be at the vanguard of the campaign to cut back vices such as thuggery, restiveness, vandalism, internet fraud, immoral living, gender-based violence and others in our society.” In his remark, the GSC Global Coordinator, Engr. Okey Nworah, said, “There are values, demands and requirements in organizations. I’m glad to tell you that for those of you that have demonstrated his values through these CDs, you are on your path to great opportunities.” Also speaking, the CDS President, Chibuzor Alinonu, said: “It’s very important that as youth we have a major role to play during the forthcoming election because youths speak about 70% of the total population. “It’s very important that we come out, especially for the forthcoming general election, which is about 18 days from now to vote. And I believe that if we all come out to vote, we’ll see the change that we are all clamouring.”