South-South Movement for Tinubu/Shettima Ticket (SSMTS), has assured Nigerians that there won’t be untouchable under Tinubu led –government, noting that every public office holder will be put into check and control for the interest of the people. The National Coordinator for SSMTS, comrade Eyengho Besidone, made this known on Monday in Warri while addressing newsmen as they wrap up entire campaign activities. He said “our principal is bold and courageous hence as a president he won’t be a pushover. In a trying time like this, we need a brave President to take the lead that is exactly what Tinubu symbolizes. “Tinubu did not at any time claim to be a monopoly of knowledge,
the reason he openly displayed his rare critical leadership skills during the Chatham house interview, wherein he promised Nigerians that he will draft an excellent team of professionals to help proffer solutions to the Nigeria Mirage of problem. “The reason all sitting and formal governors of the 36 states of Nigeria have properties and mansions in Lagos including his contenders in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Labour party (LP) is that Tinubu did not only develop and established the Lagos master plan and consistently ensure it is followed to the later by all successive governments after him, but these politicians also would not have seen Lagos as their haven. “We need someone who will not be hesitant to take bold and decisive decisions especially as it concerns the National interest of the Nigeria populist on Security, and Economy/Monetary policies, he will be able to challenge those cartels entrenched in the fuel subsidy reaping off our commonwealth through the scam called a subsidy. “Asiwaju has over the years promised to tackle restructuring to strengthen the component units of the Nigeria Federation, which will grow according to their potential as well as issues of recurring decimal vis- -vis state police, resource control, etc. Asiwaju is the true Nigeria that can be best described as a UNIFIER, he is not a religious bigot like the PDP candidate, who speaks of his religion alone, or the LP candidate who runs from one church of worship to the other seeking sympathy. “Leadership is by antecedence and experience. He cannot be seen to be a fanatic but a cosmopolitan, he can further be described “on a lighter note as (MTN) everywhere you go”.
Our respected principal believed in the growth of manpower development, he has made people across the length and breadth of Nigeria as can be seen in the numerous testimonies from supporters like Joe Igbokwe, Nnamani, etc. “Why other presidential Candidates especially (Atiku and Obi) are in a self-serving sycophantic praise singing of the federal government’s anti-people failed and disgraceful CBN monetary policy (Naira Re-design), it is only our principal who in his usual vocal style come out publicly to challenge the presidency and stay with the people by proffering solution through a letter transmitted to the CBN, if implemented will ease the suffering of millions of Nigerians who could not gain access to their hard-earned cash from the bank. “ Importantly as it is, our Principal, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is not disturbed by the Naira Redesign, he worries that the masses are gravely affected. The shout and alarm are rooted in his usual character as a champion of the commoners as exemplified in his NADECO and the Military junta struggles. Perhaps, vote buying is not peculiar to any party or candidate, for example, every stakeholder (INEC, Police, Military, para, military, observers, etc.) in the polity, requires finance (Cash) to ensure the smooth execution of their planning and logistic for the polls. Why does the so-called cabal think they are targeting our Principal (Tinubu)? They are of no consequences, these are the cabal who couldn’t influence the outcome of the APC primary, where the delegates were all known to them and the numbers were reasonably small, they shall remain inconsequential in the general election where well over 93.46 million voters will be the pivotal factors. “We wish to audaciously state that the PDP candidate Alhaji Atiku Abubakar is up for a self-serving mission of coming to sell our national assets to his families, friends, and cronies. He is coming to sell those national assets remaining in Nigeria, that escaped him in 1999-2007 e.g., NNPC-LTD, NPA, and other viable National assets that our candidate intends to transform into profit generation for the best interest of the Nigerian State. Atiku’s desperation to become president this time is nonetheless for self-enrichment and not out of patriotic zeal. While his counterpart Mr. Peter Obi of the LP is capitalizing on the ignorance of some few Nigerians, otherwise he should have set Anambra on the path of greatness by ensuring sustainable infrastructural institutions, such that successive governments can then build on it as can be seen in Lagos state. “Instead, we hear H.E Soludo, Chukwuma complained that the environment of Anambra state is his number one existential threat other than security as over 40% of Anambra land is under threat of erosion and Anambra is now the Erosion capital of Nigeria. Meanwhile, Tinubu was able to salvage the entire Lagos Island from the threat of Ocean Surge which would have taken many lives, The question is what did Peter Obi do to bring the necessary succour to the good people of Anambra while as Governor of that great state for eight years? 