Don’t hold your breath for a Tyson Fury versus Anthony Joshua bout, as the ‘Gypsy King’ has absolutely no interest in the all-British showdown, ruthlessly saying his rival is ‘dead’ in his eyes, reports sportsbible.com. The undefeated WBC heavyweight king stopped Dillian Whyte and Dereck Chisora last year, as he looks for an undisputed clash against Oleksandr Usyk, who holds the WBA (super), IBF, WBO and The Ring Magazine world titles. However, if he fails to land a monstrous bout with the Ukrainian star, then the 34-year-old is eyeing a fight with former UFC champion, Francis Ngannou. Fury has ‘zero’ interest in facing the ex-world heavyweight champion and said he’s ‘dead’ in his eyes. “I don’t even (want to) go there anymore. Finished. No interest in any AJ questions. Zero. Man’s dead in my eyes,” he said. There’s no business between me and him to be done. Finished. From 2017 to, however long it’s been, 2022 – trying to make a fight. So, it’s not happening.” Fury also doubled down on his outrageous hybrid offer to Ngannou, insisting they meet in a cage rather than a boxing ring. Ngannou is free to fight Fury, having left the UFC following a protracted contract dispute. The 36-year-old, who left the promotion as UFC heavyweight king, has pursued a fight against Fury, Joshua, as well as Wilder. And Fury is keen to face the French-Camerounian, but maintains that he isn’t looking to face him under MMA rules. On the threat Usyk provides in the heavyweight division, Fury continued: “I think he’s a tough contest for anybody. All these so-called contenders and people, he’s tough for them. But he’s not tough for me. Because I am the hardest.” Asked to choose his next opponent between Usyk and Ngannou, he replied, “Not really bothered. Either one, because I’ll smash them up easily. Why not just have like a tag team match, where they can tag each other in and out during 12 rounds. F**k it! Make it 15, five-minute rounds, with 30 seconds rest and then they can tag each other in and out right the way through.”