National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Sen. Iyrochia Ayu, declared on Wednesday that the party is ready and working together to reclaim Ekiti state from the All Progressives Congress (APC). Ayu gave the assurance at the party Headquarters in Abuja during the inauguration of the state caretaker committee. Represented by Deputy National Chairman (North) Amb. Umar Damagun, Ayu said that the state chapter of the party has been in crises but pointed out that the task of the new caretaker committee is to ensure that all stakeholders are under the umbrella to deliver the state to PDP on February 25. “If you notice recently, we had an election in Ekiti state, and the state chapter of the party has always been bedevilled by the crisis. As a result of that, we had one of our worst outings in the election in Ekiti state. “Ekiti has always been a PDP state, you have been resilient, and from what we see during the presidential campaign, we know that Ekiti is still PDP. That gave us the courage to sit down and say we have to get things right. How do we do this thing? Is to be able to dissolve that executive that has always been in one crisis or the other and give a new life to the party by constituting a caretaker Committee, which will give us a brand-new executive, that will be all-inclusive. “First of all, I believe you must have been selected from wherever you come from because you have distinguished yourselves in the activities of this party and we know you have the capacity and the capability to drive this party to where we are expecting. Mind you we are in an election year. In the next few days, we’ll have our first election which is the election of the president and National Assembly member followed by the State Assembly election because you don’t have a gubernatorial election in Ekiti. “I will want to urge you to bring all and sundry to come together to work assiduously for the benefit of winning this election in Ekiti and I believe, if you do the right thing, we’ll be able to come out victorious. So you have a daunting task before you. “And for all stakeholders, I want you to give them all the cooperation that is needed to help them achieve is one reason. I believe this has always been what you wanted to have, one united party and we are giving you that opportunity now. The responsibility is rest on you to make sure that your cash on this opportunity to reclaim your party back, to rebuild this party in order to give you the desired victories that is expected”. Responding on behalf of the committee, its chairman Arch. Sadiq Obanoyen thanked the party for the responsibility reposed to them. While acknowledging that the task before the committee is enormous, he pledged that members will work together to deliver Atiku Abubakar in the state. He said: “Distinguished leaders of our party, we take this as a challenge and we believe that we have an enormous task on our hands, we also believe that by the Grace of God, with your support, we have what it takes to reconcile and unite our people ahead of the coming to the all-important election. “I believe that with your support, galvanizing all the resources that we have within the tenets of all the people that you have put together, we believe that Ekiti state will be delivered. Be rest assured that you have sent us on an errand and we will deliver”. The committee has Barr. Dosu Babatunde as Secretary while other members include: Hon. Ojoade Fajana, Adijat Eniola Balogun, Hon. Oladimeji Joshua Ayodele and Chief Boboye Adekunle. Others are Hajia Lawal Idayat Tosin, Comrade Waliu Olawole Oladipupo, Erelu Toyin Olumilua Mark, Dr Alade Beatrice Modupe, Aare Temitope Amerijoye, Akogun Bunmi Ogunleye, Olugbenga Adewole, Hon Ajibola Samuel and Barr. Dosu Babatunde.