Save Nigeria from collapse, elect Obi president, Ohanaeze begs Nigerians The Zikist-Aminu Kano Patriots (ZAP), yesterday, endorsed the presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi, and asked Nigerians to vote him in Saturday’s presidential election. In a statement issued after the group’s meeting in Enugu by its Secretary General, Dr. Steve Igweze, ZAP said that its members deliberated on various issues and expectations of Nigerians from whoever emerges as the next president, and came to the conclusion that Obi is the preferred candidate. According to the statement, “ZAP carefully assessed antecedents of the four leading presidential candidates, Bola Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Atiku Abubukar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Rabiu Kwankwaso of New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) and Peter Obi of LP before coming to the conclusion that Obi presents more reliable character, capacity and competence to lift Nigeria out of the present cliff-hanger. The statement reads: “Obi’s pledge to transform Nigeria from consumption to productive country is realistic given the fact that he has not only invested in Onitsha, Ogun, Abuja, but also, as a prudent person, it is easier for him to save our commonwealth for investment. This virtue is seemingly absent in the two other presidential candidates. “ The statement noted that ZAP deliberated on Obi’s plan to mechanise the swathe of hectares of land in Northern Nigeria for massive agricultural revolution, stressing,  “it believes that Obi’s agrarian revolution comes as a seamless continuity of President Buhari’s efforts in that regard, evidenced by his Anchor Borrowers Programme and Green Imperative Project.” Also, a faction of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, yesterday, begged Nigerians, especially those from the Northern part, to save the country from total collapse by voting the presidential candidate of Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi. In a statement in Abakaliki, the Secretary General of the factional apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Okechukwu Isiguzoro, noted that electing Obi as president would not only transform the economy, but will rebrand the image of the country before the international community. Isiguzoro pleaded with Northerners to unite for greater future of the country by voting for Obi on February 25. The statement reads: “There is an ongoing battle between corrupt elite and President Muhammadu Buhari, as there are attempts to bend the president to accept the elite’s covetousness, and allow a particular candidate win the 2023 presidential election. “The North should know that it’s only Obi, who has the capacity to salvage the many problems in the North and resuscitate dwindling fortunes of the North.
“Those who are aged will not be able to do the work; rather than helping the region, they will aggravate and worsen the situation.
“Northerners should avoid playing the ethnic and religious cards and choose competence, capacity and character to end insecurity and banditry in the region.”