With the paucity of big-spending record labels in the expansive Nigerian music scene, it is difficult for a plethora of musicians to access funding for their music promotion. These independent artistes are either faced with the option of quitting or starting their own record label and self-funding themselves. The result? Only a few commercial successes! However, artistes like the Enugu-bred rapper Ikechukwu Jerrydim, professionally known as Jedia, continue to stand out from the norm as a success story, as he melds a top role as the Chairman of 231 Conglomerate and also a fast-rising music star. The young maverick continues to show rarity in how he balances both exploits to help maintain sanity and productivity. In an interview with Weekend Beats, the oil and gas mogul explains that a good sense of time management is at the core of his own strategy. “Well, there’s a time for everything. I’m always available for my business. I have a good team as well. Music is something I can do anywhere. I’ve hummed some hit jams in my car while driving and recording myself and it ended up becoming a good song. As for my other businesses, I handle them as I should. I take my time and also let the team do their job,” he grins. Music-wise, Jedia has also had a stellar couple of years. His discography has piloted him to the prime spot in Afrobeats, as he distinguishes himself as an Afro-fusion act. While his tenacity and ambition kept him running for the big checks in business, his passion for music continues to keep him on his ten toes as a singer. The Cyprus-based act is gradually gathering significant buzz across the European music scene, as well. He also noted that the music communities in Cyprus are big lovers of Afrobeats, noting that, “they jam it everywhere.” The artiste also noted that his 231 Group is poised to impact society, via music and entrepreneurship. “I want to be able to help everyone; I want them to hear my music and feel better. I also want them to be able to afford household things, which is where my affordable 231 gas comes in. Somehow, it’s all a grand mix working in the same direction.” 