­ A fire fire fighter stand in the rubble of a collapsed building  The building, which was under construction at 7th Avenue, in Gwarinpa of FCT, equally housed a shopping mall.
The rescue operation was carried out by a combined team of the Abuja Metropolitan Management Council (AMAC) and Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA). Also among the rescue team were the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and others. An eyewitness, Simon keror, who was working at the other new estate, located opposite the collapsed building, said they were able to rescue same people before rescue teams arrived. In his response, the Coordinator of the Abuja Metropolitan Management Council (AMMC), Umar Shuaibu, said it would conduct an integrity test on houses around the collapsed building after the recuse mission. He confirmed two deaths and 15 others taken to hospital.
He added that, the council will commence immediately to ascertain both the remote and immediate cause of the collapse. Commissioner of Police, CP Sadiq Abubakar, who visited the scene, assured that the FCT Police would provide necessary support to ensure ease of rescue operations and ensure hoodlums do not take advantage of the situation. He also pledged support of the Command to aid the functions of building regulatory and investigative bodies in the FCT. The CP, who described the situation as ‘very unfortunate’, called on residents of the area to remain vigilant and report any suspicious movement to the police. He prayed that the victims, especially those reportedly trapped under the rubble, would be rescued and stabilised accordingly. According to the spokesperson of the command, DSP Josephine Adeh: “The public is therefore urged to maintain vigilance and report suspicious activities to the police through the following emergency numbers: 08032003913, 08061581938, 07057337653, and 08028940883, while the Public Complaint Bureau (PCB) desk,  could be reached at 0902 222 2352.” 