Download logo U.S. Mission Morocco today announced the launch of #She_Is_A_Scientist campaign, which celebrates the achievements of incredibly talented Moroccan women and girls operating in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math), who have participated in U.S. exchange programs.  Educational, cultural, and professional exchange programs are an essential part of the U.S.-Morocco relationship, allowing our two countries to strengthen the already strong people-to-people ties between Americans and Moroccans of all backgrounds — and building on more than 240 years of friendship. Since 2012, the U.S. government has supported a wide range of local capacity-building programs and exchange opportunities in the United States specifically focused on Moroccan women who work in the fields of Science, Technology, Engineering and Math — in recognition of the crucial role that women increasingly play in these rapidly developing fields. More than 1500 young Moroccan women aged 15 to 35 have participated in these programs. Professional and academic STEM exchange programs in the United States include TechWomen, TechGirls, Women in Science (WiSci), and the International Visitor Leadership Program (IVLP), among others. The U.S. Mission has also worked with local partners to create STEM programs in Morocco, namely the DigiGirlz Mentoring Program, Race2Space (Space Camp), and the First Tech Challenge. These highly competitive programs allow Moroccan girls and women, from all walks of life, to create ties with U.S. counterparts while honing their leadership skills, strengthening their networks, and supporting the next generation of Moroccan and American women and girl leaders who pursue careers in STEM fields. Imane Berchane, 2020 TechWomen alumna and founder of LOOP for Science, recently shared the profound benefits of such exchanges: “The TechWomen program allowed me to extend my professional network and get to know many brilliant women from all around the world who are doing amazing things in the Tech sector. During the program, I had the opportunity to interact with top executives from big companies and learn about the latest trends in my field. The program also allowed me to take an online robotics course at MITxpro.” Highlighting one of the U.S. government’s top priorities, President Joe Biden has previously stated that: “Governments, economies, and communities are stronger when they include the full participation of women.” Reiterating this important message, U.S. Ambassador to Morocco, Puneet Talwar, shared that: “Through STEM education and careers, Moroccan women contribute to their society’s economic prosperity and innovation.” The main component of the #She_Is_A_Scientist campaign is a country-wide initiative known as Girlz for Impact Days, which consists of two weeks of STEM-focused initiatives taking place throughout Morocco between March 8 –20. These volunteer initiatives, open to all Moroccans – men and women – across the country, will constitute a tangible occasion to celebrate the success of Moroccan women in the fields of Science and Technology and encourage girls to pursue careers in STEM. Information on how to sign up can be found on our embassy webpage, as well as our social media platforms. A shared US-Morocco priority is to create a world in which all women and girls everywhere can contribute to and benefit from economic growth and global prosperity. The #She_Is_A_Scientist campaign aims to accelerate momentum in recognizing, highlighting, and celebrating the past, present, and future accomplishments of women and girls in STEM in Morocco, the United States, and globally. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of U.S. Embassy & Consulates in Morocco.