Download logo The Government of Japan has contributed USD 980,000 to the United Nations Mine Action Service (UNMAS), a component of the United Nations Integrated Transition Assistance Mission in Sudan (UNITAMS), to advance Sudan’s peacebuilding efforts through humanitarian mine action. Aiming to mitigate the threat of explosive ordnance posed to Sudanese population as well as humanitarian and development actors operating in the areas affected by mines and explosive remnants of war, this contribution will enable UNMAS to survey and clear explosive hazards in the State of South Kordofan, with a possibility to expand the operations to Blue Nile and Darfur states. Under this project, 70,000 square meters and 30 kilometers of roads will be cleared – land and roads rendered safe are to be used for livelihood activities and the delivery of humanitarian and development assistance.  The generous contribution will also allow UNMAS to deliver life-saving risk education messages to and promote safe behavior among 14,000 people facing the risks of explosive hazards, including those displaced by the recent surge of inter-communal violence and natural disasters. In aid of local peacebuilding efforts, UNMAS will provide demining training to ex-combatants of a non-state armed group, transforming former conflict drivers into peacebuilders while building local capacities to address explosive hazards. The Government of Sudan has been a state party to the Anti-Personnel Mine Ban Convention (APMBC) since 2004 and was granted in November 2022 a third extension of its mine clearance deadline. Reaffirming the Sudan national mine action authority’s renewed commitment to finish clearing all known explosive ordnance contaminated areas by 2027, “UNMAS is grateful for Japan’s support to accelerate Sudan’s mine action efforts to meet its obligation,” explained UNMAS Chief of Mine Action Programme Mohammad Sediq Rashid. Since 2007, the Government of Japan has contributed over USD 23 million to UNMAS in Sudan. “It is our honor to continue our work with UNMAS Sudan through our project “Humanitarian Mine Action for Durable Peace in Sudan”. The Government of Japan has long been a strong advocate of and contributor to mine action, peacebuilding, and improving human security globally. I sincerely hope that this project would contribute to achieving UNMAS Sudan’s goal of realizing a mine-free Sudan, which perfectly aligns with our vision in ensuring sustainable and durable peace and also enhancing human security.” Ambassador of Japan to Sudan, H.E. Mr. Takashi Hattori commented. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of United Nations Integrated Transition Assistance Mission in Sudan (UNITAMS).