Olorogun Kenneth Gbagi, a lawyer, criminologist and industrialist, is the governorship candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in Delta State. In this interview with journalists in Lagos, he says Delta State needs a security expert, an entrepreneur, somebody who is transparent, true to himself and God to run it
efficiently and effectively. OBIRE ONAKEMU was there. EXCERPTS: How are you going about your campaign thus far and what is the degree of your acceptance by the people?
This is the first time l am going to be a candidate in an election and I must tell you that our footsteps, our conducts, our utterances are uttered by God and l am very happy. The outcome of my campaign, my town hall meetings are turning out fully as it ought to be. As one of the founding fathers of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Delta State, would it not have been better to contest under the umbrella of the PDP and support whoever emerge as governorship candidate of the party?                  
 First and foremost l cannot give support to an illiterate. Also, l cannot give support to somebody whom I know cannot change the narrative of our dear Delta State. lt is a well known fact that PDP in Delta State is under the  principle of rotational governorship and that arrangement came to Delta Central. I am the best candidate as everybody has testified. Our people believe in somebody that is incorruptible and I am not corruptible. l would rather be on the side of the masses, work with the youth, our agents and the pensioners on the platform of the SDP, the oldest party in Delta State and on the platform of which Olorogun Felix lbru won governorship election. His footprints and what he did are there for everyone to see. The SDP is the same party with which Chief M.K.O. Abiola won the 1993 presidential election. And the fact that we are a party that is founded on social justice, we shall run a government that the people will admire and not a government that will take all into private pockets. That is not what SDP stand for. Are you really convinced that you will win the governorship seat under SDP? 
 Definitely. There is no doubt about that. What makes you believe that elections in Delta State will be free and fair? 
God and the people would force it to be free and fair. The same situation happened before with the ex-SDP. All Urhobo were previously in NRC and at a time, the numerically superior Urhobo said that they wanted to move to the SDP, which they did. Similarly in this situation, everyone who is of age believes that they must fight it right. My consolation is that everybody knows that this government needs to do a rethink. lt needs somebody who has an entrepreneur’s mind, somebody who is transparent, true to himself and God for it to be run efficiently and effectively. Delta needs somebody who can bring industries and create employment. We need a security expert. l am a criminologist. All that are necessary and needed are in Gbagi. The people know us for what we are. lf God were to come down today to conduct this election, l will get 90 per cent of the votes. How are you able to carry out your campaign in the riverine areas?
I have started that right away. I was in Bomadi the other day. All the 25 local government areas are to be visited equally. I will do exactly the same thing as we are doing now. We have started with Kwale where my deputy governor hails from, followed by Bomadi and Udu. The acceptability is 100 per cent. The people know those who can change their fortunes, those to trust with their money, those who can change their children’s fortunes and make their education better like I did when I was Minister of Education. If you become the governor, what do you plan to do differently?
My governorship will be for every Delta resident, including those in the diaspora and people who are non-indigenes. My government will be all-inclusive. So, it is a situation where everybody will be actively involved in governance of the state. I believe very strongly that I will do a lot of things differently. It is said that the taste of the pudding is in the eating. As it is today, I am a man worth talking about when it comes to industrialisation of the state, business and a person bringing hope to the hopeless. If I can do it in my private capacity, that means I can do it ten million times more with instrumentality of government. I believe that Delta can take its rightful position by bringing back all our moribund companies, creating the enabling environment, bringing back companies that had left and employing all our youths. Delta State is rich; it is the richest state in Nigeria and is richer than 42 countries in the world. We have all that it takes to be great. How do you intend to strengthen the security network of the state for the enabling environment canvassed?
Everyone who cares to know and reads my profile knows that I am a criminologist to the core in Africa. The question now is that, with all that I know about security, Delta State will be the safest place three months after my taking over of governance of the state. It will be the most interesting place for everybody to live. We know the technicality, we know how to do it and we know we can put it together. It will be a win – win situation for Delta State and the joy of all will be full. As the chief security officer of my state, I will take it to heart and make sure that I deal with it from every calculated side and from every calculated angle. If all the people get source of livelihood and feeding, then it will be easier for us to identify every single act of criminality and deal with it precisely. One of the things people should understand is that I decide what is required. People would say Kenneth Gbagi is tough, he is principled and has character, but those are the elements that one needs to run a state perfectly. It is not just saying I want to be the governor, I want to be the chief security officer. If you leave your car open, you can come back and see your car intact without anything stolen from it. It is possible. I did it in the United States of America, United Kingdom (UK), Hong Kong, Phillipine as well as Lagos and Abuja and I will do it in Delta. Delta will be the safest place to live in. Your opponents in the All Progressives Congress (APC), PDP and the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) have formidable background and structures on ground. Do you really have this pedigree to defeat them?
I think you are not correct. Your research is not updated. Of the parties you are mentioning now, over 42 per cent of PDP people currently will vote for me because they do not believe in the decision of the person they have presented or they have forced on them as governorship candidate.
For that reason, they will vote for me because they love me, they love their society, they love growth and they know that the only man who can do that today is Gbagi. If you ask every true friend of yours in APC who they will vote for, they will tell you it is Gbagi. They don’t believe in their governorship candidates because of us. None of the parties you have mentioned will come near SDP. SDP is the oldest party in Delta. Forget the fact that for a while, they were not playing their roles, they have taken their positions. And as I said, if Olorogun Felix Ibru won election with SDP here with 100 per cent victory, then no doubts, that will repeat itself. What political structure does Peter Obi has? Today, people are no longer talking of parties but who can bring succor, who can solve the problems, who can do it for them. So, people from APC, PDP, APGA, LP, all of them will vote for Gbagi. This is because they have come to realise the fact that unless you get the right man to do the job for you, you are wasting your time. That is our strength. Are you really convinced that Deltans can still trust you with their votes?
Yes, 100 per cent trust. Just a few days ago, CPFM endorsed me. Are you aware? This is a powerful Christian body and has a large population. Did you really get the consent and blessings of Delta State stakeholders and elders before embarking on this mission?
Definitely yes, I did. Name any Delta State stakeholder or elder, they are all supporting me. They are all on my side, go and find out. What is your view on the readiness of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for this coming election?
No doubts, INEC is there for all. I believe the commission will be successful in conducting free and fair elections, especially with the introduction and use of the BVAS machines. Looking at the challenges facing Nigeria today, what would be your advice to President Muhammadu Buhari
He is on the way out. The only job that remains for him to do now is to put down his name on record as the president who conducted fair and fairest election, and this will be one of the legacies he needs to leave behind if only the election is free and fair without interference.