Nigerian businessman, Dozy Mmobousi, has been in the media spotlight for the past week or so, ever since it was reported by The Times that he is the man behind the £90 million financial takeover of Sheffield United Football Club, writes sheffutd.vitalfootball.co.uk. Yesterday, a report was written by The Athletic suggesting that Mmobousi is a conman and that Sheffield United will be at risk of foul play if they complete the financial takeover. The Athletic stated that Tingo Airlines, who Mmobousi is the director of, is a fake company because there is zero evidence of them ever flying a plane, plus, the business address is said to be forged. However, according to sheffutd.vitalfootball.co.uk, this could just be a failed business venture, which was halted before it was even started due to the Coronavirus pandemic. Numerous articles attempt to belittle Mmobousi, because there is little monetary evidence from his Tingo business. One report from December 2022 clears everything up, and there is no need to worry, Blades fans, the website said. It quoted The Globe News Wire report as stating that the “consolidation of 100 per cent of Tingo Mobile’s balance sheet into MICT (Cash at September 30, 2022 amounted to $247 million and Total Assets amounted to $1.51 billion). “Consolidation of 100 per cent of Tingo Mobile’s revenues and income into MICT from Today (annualised revenue run rate approaching USD $1.2 billion and net income before tax run rate approaching USD $650 million – as reported within Tingo, Inc.’s Q3 2022 Form 10-Q).” Another company of Mmobousi’s is Tingo Foods, and a report by Nairametrics from four days ago showed that the Nigerian businessman has huge aspirations. “Tingo Foods, a wholly owned subsidiary of Tingo International Holdings Inc, is set to revolutionise the African food industry with the planned foundation laying ceremony of its state-of-the-art food processing facility. “The facility, with a project cost of $1.6 billion, aims to save Africa from paying foreign exchange to import finished food products, export made-in-Africa foods to the world, enhance inter-Africa trade via the Africa Continental Free Trade Agreement, and sell high-quality and nutritious food products in Nigeria. The project is expected to begin operations in the next 18 to 24 months.” 