A Lagos-based studio – Eronlanx Studio is collaborating with Lagos Peace Club (LCP), in admonishing Nigerians to embrace peace as the Presidential election holds on Saturday. The Director, of Eronlanx Studio, Mr Daniel Eronlan, who spoke yesterday, maintained that for the election to be free and fair, there is a need for peace to reign across the country. He said: “As we match towards February 25th, the tension in the air becomes increasingly undeniable as Nigerians fear the looming violence that many people have to predict.” According to him, “a free and fair election guarantees that the people’s choice becomes the number one man for Nigeria. As one of the most populous countries in Africa, it is imperative that people make the right decision politically when they step out to cast their votes.” Noting that the country is blessed with abundant resources and a rich cultural heritage, Eronlan however decried that the political landscape of the country has been marred by corruption, election rigging and violence. “Eronlanx studio is joining forces with the LPC by taking up the responsibility of promoting peace in the forthcoming elections and subsequent ones among citizens, parties and rival political groups across the country. “Eronlanx studio has carved out a niche by spreading the African narrative through visual aids. However, this time, the studio has a step further to preach peace during the forthcoming elections through visual aids”, he said. He noted that this will be possible through its partnership with the Lagos Peace Club (LPC). The LPC is a forerunner in the promotion of peace within the various communities in Lagos State and beyond. “As a video production company, we believe videos have the power to move people, touch hearts, stir emotions and inspire change. “Chaos makes election rigging very easy; peace is all that is needed to make this work. The political climate in Nigeria can often be tumultuous and this can make it easier for political parties to engage in election rigging. “Eronlanx is taking action to meet the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 16 tagged, ‘Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions’; and Goal 17 which has to do with ‘Partnership for the Goals’ towards strengthening of the economy and development of the people”, Eronlan stated.