The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), yesterday, destroyed fake, spurious and falsified, expired medicines and unwholesome food products worth N326,833,592,80. The destruction exercise conducted by the NAFDAC North Central zone comprising Benue, Kogi, Plateau, Kwara, Niger and Nasarawa States, took place at the Lafia dump site. The Director General of NAFDAC, Professor Moji Adeyeye, in her Keynote address, expressed worries over the importation, distribution and sales of fake, unsafe and wholesome NAFDAC-regulated products which she said, present a great onslaught on human life. “As part of our lawful responsibilities today, we are witnessing the destruction of various categories of regulated products with an estimated street value of N326,833,592,80. The products include medicines, food, cosmetics and chemicals, either confiscated or voluntarily handed over by companies and trade unions”, Adeyeye said The representative of the DG and Director, of the Investigation and Enforcement Directorate, Mr Francis Ononiwu, stated that NAFDAC was soliciting support from the public and corporate bodies including religious and traditional rulers to rid the nation of fake and adulterated products. In his remark, the North Central Zonal Director, Pharm. Mohammed Shaba explained that products destroyed were mopped from the five states of the North Central within the space of eight months to one year by the enforcement arm of the agency. He revealed further that most of the violators have already been tried by the law court and are either jailed or fined, noting that the agency will not spare any violator of the regulated products. Shaba however cautioned users of any consumables to check both the manufacturing and expiry dates and the NAFDAC number on the product before purchase. Pharm. Shaba urged the general public to report to the agency or security outfit by reporting any person or group dealing with fake, unregistered and unwholesome medicines, foods or any product under regulation.