As Orji Kalu wins, Rep Onyejeocha loses in Abia
Serving Speaker of the Abia State House of Assembly and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate for Ikwuano/Umuahia Federal Constituency for Saturday’s House of Representatives election, Chinedum Orji, has lost to Labour Party’s Obi Aguocha. According to the Returning Officer, Prof. Uma Kalu Oke, who announced the results, Aguocha polled 48,199 votes to beat Orji, who polled 35,196. Results announced showed other losing contestants to have polled, thus: Ogbonna Obilor of All Progressives Congress (APC), 4,042; Ogbonna Abarikwu of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), 2,758; Obinna Nwosu of African Democratic Congress (ADC), 2,386 and Nnamdi Ogbuagu of All Peoples Party (APP), 347 votes. Also, Labour Party candidates for Abia Central Senatorial District, Darlington Nwokocha, and Isiala Ngwa North/South House of Representatives, Ginger Onwusibe, won the polls as announced yesterday. Nwokocha and Onwusibe are serving members of the House of Representatives and Abia House of Assembly, respectively. SIMILARLY, Senate Chief Whip and Candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Orji Kalu, has been declared winner in the Abia North senatorial poll, beating Senator Mao Ohuabunwa to second position, while House of Representatives Deputy Whip, Nkeiruka Onyejeocha, also of the APC, lost in the Isuikwuato/Ummunnechi Federal Constituency poll to the Labour Party candidate, Amaobi Ogah. In Bende Constituency contest for the House of Representatives, the serving member, Benjamin Kalu, defeated his predecessor, Nnenna Ukeje, of the People Democratic Party (PDP). According to INEC results announced by the Returning Officer for Abia North, Chinedu Nnamdi, Kalu polled 30,805 to defeat Ohuabunwa, who polled 15, 175 votes and Nnamdi Iroh of the Labour Party with 27,540 votes. In Isuikwuato/Umunneochi Federal Constituency, Labour Party candidate, Amaobi Ogah, was also declared winner by defeating current member of the House of Representatives and APC candidate, Nkiruka Onyejiocha. Returning Officer, Nneoma Nnochiri, who announced the result, said Ogah polled a total of 11,769 votes as against Onyejiocha’s 8,752, while the PDP candidate, Loveth Ofoegbu, scored a total of 6,760.