As the clock ticks for Nigerians from all walks of life to express their franchise at the presidential election scheduled for Saturday, it is important that all Nigerians play their part in ensuring that the preparation and efforts of four years by relevant agencies, particularly the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) come to fruition. History certainly beckons on the country at the moment, that has been the subject of discussions and debates, approaches. For Nigerians of voting age and who have perfected their instrumentality of voting via possession of the Permanent Voter’s Card (PVC), this is the time to make up their mind. Having had ample time to indirectly interrogate the candidates through their manifestoes and electioneering campaigns, Nigerians should decide who among them can best satisfy their aspirations and endeavour to vote for him or her on Saturday and in days earmarked for subsequent elections. They should recognise that as important as the presidential election is to the whole country, the elections into the National Assembly (to be held simultaneously with the presidential on Saturday, February 25, 2023), Governorship and State Houses of Assembly, scheduled for Saturday, March 11, 2023 are equally important and significance for their complementarities with one another. A good president alone cannot move the country forward without the support of good governors and good lawmakers at both the federal and the state levels. This is the time for Nigerians to accept the reality of the unsavoury chain of events that have led to this election. The events include but are not limited to lingering scarcity of petrol; or the severe cash scarcity that has struck the entire country and citizenry following Federal Government’s initiative to redesign the naira notes of three denominations; and exchange them for their old counterparts all within a limited time that lapsed without commensurate and reasonable availability of the new notes, thus throwing Nigerians into anguish, hunger, suffering and general disillusionment. Nonetheless, having borne the pains in so resolute a manner over the past weeks, Nigerians’ best option is to try and put it behind them and go out to cast their votes peacefully. By so doing, they will destabilise mischievous plans by self-centred enemies of progress to disrupt or possibly cancel the elections; and consequently disappoint the mischief makers. Firstly, in following due process to choose their preferred candidates, Nigerians must eschew and contain the widespread violence and crises that have trailed or threatened this upcoming civic exercise, if this democratic process is to be rightfully qualified as free, fair and credible. Considering the overwhelming quest for transformation, the deployment of resources by parties and the active demonstration of participation of the electorate, this election is tending to be like no other. Undoubtedly, and in agreement with the submission of informed watchers of the polity, this election may be the decisive moment that will make or mar Nigeria. Consequently, no constitutional and morally justifiable means should be spared to ensure that Nigeria gets it right this time around. The violent attacks that trailed the campaigns of some political parties in the last few weeks seemed to reflect the level of tension and pressure being generated over the oncoming elections. From hate speeches to image-searing propagandas and from bitter infighting to murderous protests, practically every presidential candidate had encountered similar violence during campaigns. Notable casualties of the ongoing pre-election violence were three of the security aides of Delta State Governor and Vice Presidential aspirant of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), Ifeanyi Okowa, who were ambushed and killed by suspected gun men along Ihiala-Orlu Road en route Umuahia, Abia State. Instructively, that axis of the South East appears to record more violence, including those related to elections, than many other parts of Nigeria. Before then, gun men abducted and beheaded the Chairman of Ideato North Local Government of Imo State and set his residence ablaze. At about the same time, political thugs in Zamfara State allegedly attacked the campaign train of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and destroyed the Outdoor Broadcasting (OB) van of the state radio station, while in Maiduguri Borno State, thugs were said to have destroyed the campaign bill boards of the presidential aspirant of the New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP), Rabiu Kwankwaso. Only recently, hoodlums and alleged supporters of another political party supposedly attacked supporters of the Labour Party (LP) at a rally held in Lagos. We strongly condemn both the intention behind such evil machinations and the perpetrators of these violence acts. They give away Nigerian aspiring politicians as rapacious, power-drunk and self-seeking overlords, while portraying the electorate as politically naïve and disoriented masses incapable of managing their political destiny. Since the campaigns have exposed the forthcoming presidential elections as one of the most keenly contested ones in recent times, it is understandable why emotions are high. Ordinarily, elections in Nigeria are more than a bit testing, owing to the suffusion of ethnic, religious and prebendal interests. Many people have the distorted thinking that holding political offices or directing participation in partisan politics is the birthright or exclusive occupation of certain individuals or social group. With little or no preparation for genuine political engagement, some individuals, under the protection of state power or some powerful political influence have turned political offices into their private business concerns. Such candidates would stop at nothing to get to power. Also election periods are seasons when security operatives engage in unjustified acts of partisanship, lawlessness and needless violence. Perhaps tempted by promises of some good fortune from influential politicians, security and law enforcement agents compromise their constitutional duties for personal gratification. There is also the tendency for INEC to be viewed as being compromised through deliberate mismanagement of resources and haphazard logistics in order to favour a candidate. This may lead to undesirable consequences. Lastly, the proliferation of small arms which find their way into the hands of unauthorised persons including thugs, politicians and mischief makers has also been adduced as a reason for electoral violence.
To be continued tomorrow. 