The All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Benue state, Rev Fr Hyacinth Alia has lauded the Supreme Court judgment dismissing the Appeal against his nomination by one of the aggrieved contenders, Prof. Terhemba Shija. On January 23, 2023, the Court of Appeal sitting in Makurdi in it’s judgment had ordered for a re-run of the APC primary election in 11 local government councils, out of the 23 local government councils, in Benue state. Not satisfied with the judgment, the appellant and one of the aggrieved governorship aspirants, Prof. Shija, approached the Supreme Court. But his case has, however, been dismissed by the apex court thus putting to an end the plethora of court cases against the Benue state APC governorship candidate by fellow contestants. At least, three governorship aspirants-Prof. Shija, Chief Barnabas Gemade and Chief Mike Aondoakaa (SAN), had challenged the APC governorship nomination process in the courts. Both Gemade and Mike Aondoakaa’s suits were terminated at the Court of Appeal. Shija proceeded to the Supreme Court where the case has been finally adjudicated in favour of Fr. Alia. Responding to his victory, Fr Alia told journalists that “the match has ended,” and invited all the aggrieved governorship aspirants to a reconciliatory handshake. Fr. Alia expressed appreciation to his supporters after the judgment. According to him,  “the target of the litigants was to distract the project and halt the steam with which it took off. The people never wavered…We are happy we have come out victorious at the courts. “We are fully on course. The Supreme Court only did well by confirming the divine wishes of the Benue people. “We must once more express our confidence in the Nigeria judiciary. The respected Justices truly painstakingly went through, and evaluated vividly all evidence before them to deliver a very sound judgment.
“The Supreme Court outrightly nullified the judgment and orders of the Court of Appeal, saying that there was no need for such orders”, he said. 