The effective Biomodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) and smooth accreditation and voting simultaneously at the LEA Primary School, Gidan Mangoro, FCT, Abuja, have excited the voters. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Saturday reports that the centre, which is under Orozo Ward, comprised four Polling Units (PUs) 056, 057, 058 and 008. Voting began in the PUs at 9.30 a.m. and still ongoing. The BVAS in all the PUs were functioning well as the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) officials, security agents, observers, party agents on ground and voters who voted confirmed. Speaking with NAN, Chief of Gidan Mangoro, Mr Musa Magaji, expressed satisfaction over peaceful conduct of the election and the functionality of the BVAS. Magaji urged Nigerians to allow peace to reign, by imbibing peaceful coexistence, orderliness and vote wisely, considering the happenings in the country and way out. Mr Bello Bartholomew, Labour Party (LP) polling agent, also lauded the smooth process of the election at the PUs, adding that the massive turnout was really challenging but relieved with how the security agents took charge of their duties. Another voter, Mr Nwaogu Uzodimma, who was the first voter in his polling unit 056, expressed excitement that it was easy to trace his name while the BVAS assessment and capturing were smooth. “I have not voted since I was born but I have ascertained what we are going through in the country in view of its economic situation and decided that I must vote the candidate of my choice. “INEC has said that with the BVAS our votes must count, so I am optimistic that my vote will count and I will wait, observe and safeguard it till the end, even without food today,” he said. Mr Cajetan Egwim, another voter, also thanked God for a hitch-free voting process so far but decried the challenge of misplacement of ballot papers which was addressed immediately. He was glad that the PUs were peaceful and orderly with the cooperation of the security agents. 