An entrepreneur, Isyaku Rabiu, says Nigeria’s judicial system requires transformation to compete with contemporary and rated judicial systems across the world in line with global best practices. Rabiu maintained that, more than ever, all eyes are beamed on the judicial system to rise above partiality, bias and injustice while adjudicating on post election trials. Rabiu, who was a guest speaker at the 24th executive retreat of the Nigeria Judicial Council (NJC), held in Kano, emphasised the critical role of the judiciary in achievement of peace and unity in the country. In a paper titled, ‘Transformation and Leadership of Judicial System,’ Rabiu pointed out that judicial officers have the responsibility to interpret laws. He, however, noted that the content of all legal interpretations must reflect justice, fairness and equity to all parties. Examining effectiveness of the rule of law in Nigeria and level of compliance, Rabiu contended that the present administration has tried to abide by the rulings of the court. He advocated improved system and environment that will guarantee transparency and equity. Rabiu declared that the critical role of judicial officers is needed more essentially as the nation embarks on general elections to choose who becomes next president of the country. He pointed that with the elections fast approaching, judicial officers would be confronted with significant number of post-election matters that have to be addressed. He, therefore, solicited impartial, unbiased justice system that will give every party the right due to it. Worried by the spate of religious intolerance, ethnic sentiment and cultural division in the country, Rabiu cautioned political elite against breeding needless division in the name of politics. “We are different ethnic groups, different religions and different cultures, as well as views.  What should have made us strong in Nigeria is unity despite our diversity. “Incidentally, politics and politicians do not care about such threat, which is critical to our existence. We have seen these coming to play, especially as we approach the elections. “There is nothing stopping Nigerians from electing any candidate from any section of the country, especially if the candidate is the one we know is capable and competent in fixing multiple challenges the country is face with at the moment; the one that will tackle insecurity, fight economic challenges, unemployment, poor health and so on.” 