Defence Headquarters (DHQ) has dismissed as malicious propaganda, a report by some “unscrupulous elements” of plot by some military officers to disrupt the forthcoming general elections. Acting Director of Defence Information, Brig.-Gen. Tukur Gusau, said this in a statement, on Saturday, in Abuja. He said the Armed Forces of Nigeria was dismayed that even politically exposed persons had denigrated themselves by joining agents of destabilisation. According to him, the elements claimed some military officers met with a presidential candidate with the aim of disrupting the elections and setting the country on fire. He said: “It needs to be stated that the Armed Forces of Nigeria is a professional military that is loyal to the Constitution of the Federal Republic and will never be part of any evil plot against our democracy. Besides, the military remains apolitical and neutral in the current political process and will not engage in the alleged shenanigans. “The Armed Forces of Nigeria will never be part of any ignoble plot to truncate our hard-earned democracy.” Gusau said the military high command would ensure those who fabricated and spread the unfounded report are invited by appropriate law enforcement agencies to substantiate their claims. “The general public is advised to disregard such information and go about their normal activities,” he added. MEANWHILE, Mr. Phrank Shaibu, Special Assistant (Public Communications) to Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, issued a statement, yesterday, urging Department of State Services (DSS), the Nigeria Police Force and other security agencies to invite the Director of Special Projects and New Media of the Tinubu/Shettima Presidential Campaign Council, Femi Fani-Kayode, to explain a coup he alleged was being planned by Atiku and top generals. Shaibu said: “Ordinarily, we wouldn’t have bothered responding to Fani-Kayode. However, allegations and insinuations of a coup should not be taken lightly, given the fact that it is treason, an offence that carries the death penalty. “While commending the Nigerian military for effectively rubbishing Fani-Kayode’s barefaced lie, we call on security agencies to invite him to shed more light on the allegations.” 