• Apologises To Oyo Monarchs Over Inability To Meet Them
• Olubadan Empathises With Him On Tight Campaign Schedules
• Florence Ajimobi Thanks Party Supporters For Massive Turnout The Presidential Candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu, has pledged to revamp the economy and recharge Lake Chad to fight poverty, inflation and unemployment among youths in the region. Tinubu spoke, yesterday, during the APC presidential campaign rally at the El-Kanemi Warriors Sports Centre, Maiduguri, the Borno State capital. He said revamping the economy would spur people to be hardworking, honest and accountable. He said: “Successes are to come back with renewed hopes of revamping the economy.” He assured that his administration would be “transparent and accountable” to the people along with his running mate, Sen. Kashim Shettima. He added: “After the people’s sufferings from insecurity, poverty and unemployment, we’ll reduce the economic indicators for a prosperous economy of the country.” He said education would be employed as the greatest weapon to overcome the challenges facing the country and as a tool for economic prosperity. “Education is a weapon to secure the future of children in country’s six geopolitical zones,” he said. Also speaking, APC National Chairman, Abdullahi Adamu, boasted that by next Saturday, the party would win the presidential election. He called on the people to come out enmasse to vote for Tinubu and Shettima. He also presented the APC flag to Governor Babagana Zulum for his campaign to win the gubernatorial election on March 11, 2023. Five candidates of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP), Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and All People’s Party (APP), decamped to the APC. They were received by Adamu at the rally. Party chieftains at the rally included Governors Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State; Inuwa Yahaya (Gombe); Abdullahi Ganduje (Kano); Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa and Governor Abubakar Badaru of Jigawa. In a related development, the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Lekan Balogun, Alli Okunmade II, has empathised with Tinubu over his crowded and tight campaign schedules. Balogun made this remark, while reacting to the message of apology sent to him, members of his Advisory Council and other traditional rulers from the Oke-Ogun area of the state, who could not see the politician, despite their hours of waiting for him at the Oja’ba Palace of the Olubadan, on Thursday, during his campaign rally at the Mapo Hall in the state capital. In a statement signed by the Olubadan’s Personal Assistant (Media), Oladele Ogunsola, in Ibadan, it was recalled that the traditional rulers had gathered at the Oja’ba Palace to receive the APC presidential standard-bearer, but he could not make it to the venue due to tight schedules and mammoth crowd that gathered around Mapo axis, where the Oja’ba Palace is located. Meanwhile, the Oyo State Coordinator of the Tinubu/Shettima Women Presidential Campaign Committee, Dr. (Mrs.) Florence Ajimobi,  has expressed appreciation to the people of Oyo State over their support Tinubu . Mrs. Ajimobi said the massive turnout was an eloquent evidence that “Tinubu is a well-loved candidate.” The rally witnessed a massive turnout of supporters from different parts of the state. Among the supporting groups were the Asiwaju Group (TAG) led by the State Coordinator , David Adeagbo, Oyo State Tinubu/Shettima Women Presidential Campaign Group (OTISHE) coordinated by Mrs. Ajimobi, the Coalition Movement for Bola Ahmed Tinubu ( COMBAT), the BAT Movement,  among many others. Balogun, in his reaction, said as traumatic as the waiting could be: “I can understand and I strongly feel for him. Having been a political player before and campaigned for elective office, I know what it means. I empathise with him and I don’t envy him at all. Tell him that his message resonates well and I will deliver his message to my brothers in the traditional system.” Dare was accompanied by a House of Representatives member, Musiliu Olaide Akinremi, former Chairman of Oluyole Local Council, Kehinde Olaosebikan and others. Balogun, who was with his brother, a serving Senator, Dr. Kola Balogun, said he felt pained about Tinubu’s inability to meet with the royal fathers. The statement read: “Our leader felt pained by the situation and his failure to meet our royal fathers as scheduled was not his making. The situation was basically beyond his control and this informed the raising of this team to come and tender this message of unreserved apology. “It is not in Asiwaju’s character to look down on anybody, not to talk of our revered royal fathers, who are held in a very high esteem. We are cultured and and cannot and will not do anything to erode our cherished traditional institution. Our leader has directed us to inform Your Imperial Majesty that he would come back and by that time, it would be purely to meet you, our fathers.” 