 Royal-Botanic-Gardens A botanical garden is a place that is dedicated to collection, cultivation, preservation and display of a wide variety of plants. The main idea behind a botanical garden is to provide a space where people can learn about and appreciate the diversity of plant life, as well as to conduct scientific research and conservation efforts. These gardens typically feature a diverse collection of plants from different regions, climates, and habitats, and may also include educational displays, research facilities, and recreational areas. Here are some botanical gardens in the world. Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew: Located in London, England, this garden is known for its extensive collection of plants from around the world, including over 30,000 living plants and is home to over 50,000 plant species. It is also a leading centre for botanical research and conservation. Jardin des Plantes, Paris: Founded in 1626, this garden is the oldest botanical garden in France and is home to over 17,000 plant species, including many rare and endangered species. Botanical Garden of the University of Bonn, Germany: This garden is known for its extensive collection of succulents and cacti, as well as its beautiful gardens and greenhouses. U.S. National Arboretum, Washington D.C. This garden is known for its collection of trees and shrubs, as well as its beautiful gardens and research facilities. Botanics-Herbacious-border Jardin des Plantes: Located in Paris, France, this garden is home to over 17,000 plant species and is one of the oldest botanical gardens in the world. New York Botanical Garden: Located in New York City, USA, this garden is home to over one million plant specimens and is a leading center for plant research and conservation. Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh: Located in Edinburgh, Scotland, this garden is home to over 13,000 plant species and is a leading center for plant research and conservation. Botanical Garden of the University of Copenhagen: Located in Copenhagen, Denmark, this garden is home to over 13,000 plant species and is a leading center for plant research and conservation. New-york-Botanical-Garden Royal Botanic Garden Sydney: Located in Sydney, Australia, this garden is home to over 7,500 plant species and is a leading center for plant research and conservation. National Botanic Garden of Belgium: Located in Brussels, Belgium, this garden is home to over 20,000 plant species and is a leading center for plant research and conservation. Botanics-early-summer. Botanical Garden of the University of Leiden: Located in Leiden, Netherlands, this garden is home to over 5,000 plant species and is a leading center for plant research and conservation. Botanical Garden of the University of Munich: Located in Munich, Germany, this garden is home to over 13,000 plant species and is a leading center for plant research and conservation. Singapore Botanic Gardens: Located in Singapore, this garden is home to over 10,000 plant species and is a leading center for plant research and conservation. This garden is known for its diverse collection of tropical plants, as well as its beautiful gardens and lakes. 