……deny the existence of a cabal in the presidency The national chairman of the ruling All progressives congress (APC), Sen Abdullahi Adamu comes with assurances that Nigerians would not have a proxy president under the Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu-led administration. In an interactive session with journalists in Abuja, he assured that Tinubu would live up to the expectations of Nigerians if voted into power in the presidential poll on Saturday. He faulted the notions held in certain quarters that Tinubu is unhealthy and unfit to cope with the rigours of the exalted seat of the presidency if voted into power. Reminiscing his interactive sessions with Tinubu as the party chairman and governor of Nasarawa state between 1999 to 2007, he assured that Tinubu just like President Joe Biden of the United States of America (USA) would discharge his duties effectively if voted into power. Said he: “There won’t be nothing like proxy presidency under the Tinubu-led administration. He would live up to the expectations of the presidency. If President Joe Biden who is older than Tinubu can rule with all the complications in America, why not Tinubu? “I have worked with him when was governor of Lagos state. I was governor of Nasarawa state for 8 years as his counterpart. Each time we go to the council of states meeting his seat is next to mine. In the course of the period, So many challenges in the country brought him and him together to share our thoughts. “I believe he has the capacity, I believe and hope he is elected he is up to the task. He is not the kind of person who would surrender his authority to anybody. I am not aware of any challenges to their health in him. He seems to exhibit the traits of good health. I didn’t find him one moment complain that I cannot do this or that during our extensive campaign which is demanding physically. He would make a good president if elected.” The APC chief denied the existence of any cabal in the presidency bent on stalling the presidential bid of Tinubu just as he empathized with Nigerians over the hardship they have been subjected to due to the cash swap policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria ((CBN). He maintained that the thought of the existence of a cabal in the villa is a figment of the imagination of those who cannot achieve their selfish desires in the president Muhammadu Buhari led. administration. He noted: “I don’t belong to the mafia world and it takes a mafia man to identify one. I am not aware there is a cabal. I have read about it just like every one of you. The presidency has denied it. I don’t work in the presidency and there is nothing’ like cabal that I know of.”