As Isolo Rotary Club Trains 100 Beneficiaries The President, Rotary Club of Isolo, Femi Atilade Oshoniyi, has called on the various arms of government and individuals, to place more emphasis on vocational training, skills development, and service award to develop the economy.
 
In his address during the free vocational training and skill development in soap making and air freshener for over 100 members of Isolo Community, which also include students of the Lagos State University of Science and Technology (LASUSTECH), Ikorodu, organised by the club, Oshoniyi, said vocational training, skills development and service award, three essential pillars needed for building a strong workforce and a thriving economy.
   
Oshoniyi said: “Vocational training refers to the education and training that equip individuals with the skills and knowledge necessary to perform specific jobs. It is often associated with technical and trade jobs, such as electricians, plumbers, and mechanics. However, it can also include a wide range of other professions, including healthcare, business, and information technology.”
 
He said government and wealthy individuals must place serious priorities on vocational training, especially for the youths, especially now that white-collar jobs are no longer fashionable. The president noted that if Nigerians are made to acquire specific training and skills, they could conveniently compete anywhere across the globe.
   
Emphasising on the importance of vocational training and skill acquisition, Oshoniyi said, “First, it helps individuals to acquire the skills and knowledge necessary to perform specific jobs, which in turn grows the economy. This, in turn, helps employers fill job openings with qualified candidates.
“Additionally, vocational training can help individuals advance in their careers and increase their earning potential. Skill development, on the other hand, refers to the process of acquiring new skills and building on existing ones. This can include formal training, on-the-job training, and self-directed learning.” He noted that skill development is important for a number of reasons, saying, “it helps individuals stay current in their field and adapt to changes in the workplace, it help individuals advance in their careers and increase their earning potential.” Oshoniyi, who said his tenure as president of the club has done a lot of interventions in community development, especially in Isolo, said, “Today, we focused on soap making and fragrance training for over 100 participants, who are randomly chosen from Isolo community to develop their skills and empower them on economic sustainability.”
 
He said service awards, are ways to recognise and reward individuals for their dedication and hard work. “This can include awards for years of service, outstanding performance, and exceptional contributions to the organisation. Service awards are important for a number of reasons. First, they help to motivate and retain employees. It also helps to create a positive work culture and foster a sense of loyalty among employees.
  
Administering the training, Chief Consultant, Petcom Associate and Professor of Economics, Comfort Amere, said the training would enable beneficiaries’ start their own businesses and reduce the number of people in the labour market.
   
She said the beneficiaries could start their own business with a little capital of between N10, 000.00 and N15, 000.00. The Chairman for the project, Past President Dave Emelike said the project would enable beneficiaries to be self-reliant and reduce unemployment.
 
One of the beneficiaries, Okesola Rashidat, said she would produce for sale and also for domestic use, while Olagoke Lateefat said she learnt the skills to boost her knowledge.