Poised to take youths off the streets, the Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) House of Representatives, Somolu Constituency candidate,  Hon. Oluwaseyi Olowu,  in conjunction with young entrepreneurs, has empowered youths drawn from Somolu Constituency in Lagos State with entrepreneurship skills. The two-week training saw the beneficiaries taught different skills such as gele making, make up, Fashion design, hairdressing, photography, skincare, among others. Olowu, fondly called ‘Chicago’ by party faithful and other Somolu residents, said his inspiration to conduct the training is to take the youths off the streets as many have nothing to do. “Many of our youths are not doing anything, no work for them and I decided to conduct an entrepreneurship training, let me train them and if they know it very well, they can start their own business. And we have trained almost 600 students, they have done well, they understand what they are taught, and that shows that Somolu will be great very soon.
“When I win, I will turn Somolu to a better place, I will make sure that the insecurity in Somolu is solved,” he said.
Olowu urged the government to provide adequate security for this election.
“The security should be tight, this is an election, everybody should have a free mind to vote their choice. The police should be on point to make sure the election goes well, the government should as well engage the security agencies to take charge and make sure the election is conducted well.
“I want everyone to get their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs), so that they can vote,” he urged. An instructor, who taught the youths tie and dye, Ogundele Bolatito, said the training is impacting positively on the youths.
“Some of them were not able to buy some of the materials we asked them to buy and I have some that were not too fast in learning, like two grandma’s I had to start from scratch to teach them.
“In the next six months, I will see them producing what I couldn’t produce as a teacher,” Bolatito said.
A make-up instructor, Adepoju Adesola said the training would eradicate poverty, noting that skill acquisition is important and can make one to be independent. She further urged the students to put what they have learnt into practice, never relent and to vote for PDP. A student, who learnt fashion design, Oluwafisauo Taiwo Tope, said: “I was eager to learn because I have passion for fashion design, the readiness was there for me to learn and then practice.” 