We uncovers dangerous weapons, say secret police Two days to the presidential election, New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), yesterday, alleged siege to its campaign office in Kano. Besides, the opposition party claimed that some unscrupulous elements had perfected plot to plant dangerous weapons within the premises in a bid to frame criminal charges against it. Briefing reporters on the development, the party state chairman, Umar Doguwa, lamented that their youth and mobilisation directorates along Airport Road in Nasarawa Council of Kano State were shut by men of the Department of State Services (DSS) secret security for reasons yet unknown to them. He said: “Three days to elections, men of the DSS in Kano have laid siege to the campaign office of the NNPP. The offices of the Directors of Support Groups and that of the Director of Youth Mobilisation were cordoned off by them. “We write to draw the attention of the Director General of DSS to call his Command in Kano to order. Going to our offices to plant weapons with the intention of framing our campaign directors can neither change the result of the election nor can it change the mind of millions of our supporters.” The party, therefore, called on the Federal Government, National Security Adviser (NSA), Minister of Defence, DSS Director General, Inspector General of Police, European Union Election Observation Mission, British High Commission in Nigeria and United States Embassy in Nigeria for urgent action. Reacting, the secret police said it uncovered lethal weapons, including pump rifles, matches and clogs, inside the building during a route search. The spokesperson, Peter Afunanya, explained that operatives are guided by standard rule of engagement and would not intimidate or harass members of any political party. His words: “It is not out of place to conduct search in any place like we did at a building along Airport Road in Nasarawa Local Government of Kano. And items uncovered include 12 pump action guns, matches, clogs and other dangerous weapons. 
“And if any political party claims ownership of that building, then, I don’t know what that means. So far, the DSS is making sure all political parties are give equal level field to carry out their lawful businesses devoid of intimidation and harassment. We are making sure peaceful atmosphere is provided for free and credible elections.”