Lagos State Government, yesterday, pledged to be strict and swift in dealing with anyone caught damaging the Blue Line rail in Lagos. Managing Director, Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (LAMATA), Abimbola Akinlajo, made the pledge during day two of the test-run of the Lagos rail mass transit from Marina to Mile 2, Lagos. The ride was ahead of the full commencement of passenger operations scheduled for first week of April. The Blue Line is one of the six rail lines and one monorail proposed for Lagos in the state’s Strategic Transport Master Plan (STMP). The infrastructure for the rail operation was completed by the government of Babajide Sanwo-Olu on December 21, 2022 and commissioned by President Muhammad Buhari on January 24, 2023. Speaking during the ride, Akinlajo said the ride and commuting testing is important to test the processes that will ensure that commuters are comfortable and aware of how to use the trains. She said: “We are also ensuring that everything we have here is safe for everyone to use and, we can only do that when we try all the processes.
“One of the things we discovered in the first ride was that our Public Address System was not working, today, it’s working.
“We also discovered in the night, there are incursions on the tracks, so what we will do is to work on the track every time and be certain that there is no obstruction or damage.
“We can board 250 passengers in a minute to ensure that people can get on the train as quickly as possible. “We will have intelligent cameras along the track that will determine any level of incursion and that also will be backed by guards that will apprehend any vandal. We have a central control system in our offices and in our stations. We have other security gadgets we are already deploying.” Speaking on measures put in place to maintain the trains, she said: “We will also have security agents in the crowd. So, anybody caught vandalising our infrastructure will be arrested and charged to court to serve as deterrence to others. 