Economic and social activities in Enugu State were affected, yesterday, as commercial transport operators resorted to protest over high cost of petrol and scarcity of banknotes in the state. Petrol, which sold for N280 per litre at the beginning of the year, suddenly rose to N450 per litre, even as residents continued to experience difficulties in accessing cash at the various Automated Teller Machines (ATM) and bank halls. The situation is worsened by activities of Point of Sale (POS) operators, who have increased their charges to as much as 100 per cent. While operators charge N2, 000 for N10, 000 withdrawal of the new notes, old notes are withdrawn at N1,000 for N10,000. This is worsened by the endless queues at the ATM centres. Moved by the development, which, they said, has created difficulties for their families, drivers of commercial buses, taxies and tricycles took to the streets of Enugu in protests. The transport operators carried green leaves, made bonfires on major roundabouts and used their vehicles to block major roads, thereby preventing movement of other road users. They also forced private vehicle users to bear green leaves as a mark of solidarity. Chanting, “No fuel, No cash, we are frustrated,” as they marched, they complained they could barely feed their families, make returns, for those operating hire purchase, among other things, after buying fuel at such high price. Shops, offices, banks, schools and petrol stations, among other public places, were forced to close shops as protesters marched round the city. One of the transport operators, Ifeanyi Nnaji, said: “Buying fuel is no longer easy. N20 is added to the price everyday. Since December, we have endured the suffering. We no longer find passengers willing to patronise us because of high fares. “We decided to embark on this peaceful protest to draw attention of government to our suffering. “Government should set up a task force to monitor the fuel supply situation, because we believe there is a serious gang up to put people in perpetual hardship. When you go to fuel stations that sell below N200, you will not be allowed to buy. Why are we being treated this way? That is why we are on the streets.” He added that the new naira notes have become a booming business for POS operators, stressing: “They now sell new naira notes the way dollar is sold at the black market.” 