Gifts SUVs to first class monarchs
Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said his administration will soon revisit the issue of the 75 coronet Obas installed by the immediate past administration in the state. According to a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, at the weekend, this was disclosed during the statutory meeting of the Council of Obas with the Governor last week. “Some of them, who are really deserving of being elevated to wear beaded crowns, would be cleared to do so,” the Governor was quoted as saying. The statement added that Abiodun told the monarchs that the review committee had been set up to look into the matter with the aim of authenticating the deserving ones among the Baales. The state government, three years ago, revoked the installation of 75 minor chiefs (baales) installed at the twilight of the last administration, describing their upgrading as “political appointments alien to Yoruba kingship stool.” It said the step was necessary to save the traditional institution from decadence, as the institution should be respected at all times, assuring that those with genuine cases would be allowed to restart the process and be reinstated, if qualified. “They know that there are processes and procedures. Let them start the process again; if they are qualified, they will be given the stool,” the government promised. Abiodun, who also donated new Sports Utility Vehicles (SUVs) to 20 first class monarchs at the event, promised that those (Obas) yet to benefit from the car gift would have theirs delivered to their palaces very soon. He said his administration would continue to give priority to the traditional institution. The governor, who later met with about 320 Baales from Obafemi Owode Local Council at the Presidential Lodge, assured the chiefs that some of them would soon be promoted to Obas, while all of them would henceforth earn allowances for their roles in community development. He said his administration, in three and half years, had been able to complete over 400 kilometres of roads across the state and completed over 1,000 schools across all urban and rural areas in the state. 