Labour Party (LP) governorship candidates in Northwest have dumped their presidential candidate Peter Obi and endorsed the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate Bola Ahmed Tinubu for president. Also, National Assembly, state assembly candidates who had secured the LP tickets to pursue their political ambition announced their decision to defect to the ruling APC. Addressing journalists on behalf of the North west candidates at the weekend in Kano, the gubernatorial candidate of LP in Kano, Engr. Bashir explained candidates took the bound decision to relinquish their ambition in LP because of total disconnection and absence of a collaborative relationship with the National leadership of the party. Engr. Bashir revealed that former LP candidates across Kano, Kaduna, Jigawa, Katsina, Zamfara, Sokoto and Kebbi have decided to mobilise massive support for Tinubu to justify their political relevant. Bashir who had denied dumping LP few weeks ago after he boycotted the presidential campaign rally of Peter Obi in Kano, disclosed that his decision was burn out of injustice betted by the national working committee of LP against him. According to him, “It become absolutely necessary that members across the Northwest review our position in the LP because of the level of injustice. Hence, we directed associates and candidates to meet their constiencies to delibrate of the situation and the way out. “After wide consultation, we reach conclusion and we are pleased to inform the public that our decision include, as a coalition of LP Gubernatorial, senatorial, house of representatives and state houses of assembly candidates in the seven states of the North west as well as members of presidential campaign council of LP have decided to endorse Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as our candidate for next election. “We also resolved to leverage on the existing political structure to work on mass campaign and swinging of votes to ensure the emergency of the APC presidential candidate Asiwaju in Saturday election. And by this pronouncement, we announce our return into the fold of the ruling APC.” 