On January 25, 2023, GR8 Tech, an international B2B provider with full tech coverage for established gambling businesses, including iGaming platform solutions and the Parimatch brand franchise, entered the global iGaming B2B market to provide exceptional gaming technology to satisfy the ambitions of clients. As the successor to Parimatch Tech, GR8 Tech combines 30 years of experience in the iGaming market with a focus on long-term partnerships, commitment, and a straightforward approach. The race in the gambling industry by GR8 Tech began in 1994 with the birth of the Parimatch brand. Over the years, the company has helped Parimatch grow to a world-renowned level, providing it with a leading technological platform and partnerships with top football clubs, athletes, and esports. GR8 has created a successful platform for the Parimatch brand that handles millions of active players and peak load times during major sports events. Therefore, the evolution of Parimatch Tech to GR8 Tech is a start of a new beginning. Maksym Liashko, ex-CEO of Parimatch Tech, says that the creation of GR8 Tech is a long-awaited event “towards which we at Parimatch Tech have been consistently working throughout 2022”. Coming from a large ecosystem, GR8 Tech understands how to engage with B2C clients and can use its development to solve operational challenges. Evgen Belousov, CEO GR8 Tech, mentioned, “The current B2B iGaming market saturates with offers, yet it lacks consistency, convenience, and quality service. GR8 Tech operates to set a new norm for what a great product means. The brand composes tailor-made gaming solutions designed to evolve and fit changing business environments, thus allowing partners the freedom of forward-thinking and long-term planning”. In addition, GR8 Tech offers consulting, integration, and operation services—all via a convenient one-stop-shop approach. The outcome is a series of rubost stable, resilient, adaptive, and highly scalable iGaming business solutions that are easy to integrate and manage without the need for supervision or intrusion.  The GR8 Parimatch brand supports several global partners, including Parimatch Responsible Gambling Ambassador Oleksandr Usyk; four English Premier League football teams (Leicester City, Chelsea, Aston Villa, and Newcastle United); and two top esports organizations (00 Nation and Team Secret). GR8 Tech will have its first offline contact with the global gaming community in February 7-9, 2023, at ICE London, where attendees will be able to meet the CEO, CTO, and BD Manager, learn more about the dynamic tech in the iGaming B2B market, and be one of the first in 2023 to get GR8 Tech for their businesses. 