As the rainy season draws closer, the state governments of Ogun, Kwara and Oyo have expressed their readiness to come up with policies and actions intended to prevent flood in their respective states. The state governments gave the assurances in separate interviews with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) across the three states on Sunday. In Ogun, the state government said it would continue to take adequate measures to mitigate incidences of flooding to check its negative impacts. Oresanya listed the measures to include: construction of drainage channels at the appropriate places and clearing of blocked drains. “Our dredgers are right now working in several areas like Arepo and Obafemi-Owode Local Government area to open up the downstream and to make sure that water that comes from the flood have a way to drain off. “If you go round the state now, you will see that we are opening all the tertiary and secondary drainages. We are opening them in almost all the local government areas right now. “We have also embarked on channelisation, by way of river engineering to widen and deepen our rivers to increase their capacities for flow volume at specific sections,” he said. According to him, the state government, through its advocacy programme, had consistently appealed to citizens on the need to always take precautionary measures to control flooding. Oresanya mentioned the critical areas in the state as Isheri, Akute, Warewa, Oke-Afa, Owa and Yemule riverbanks in Ijebu-Ode. “Others are Onihale in Ifo, Ogun Waterside, Ebute-kimobi in Ijebu-East and those living near flood plains of Sokori, Arankanga and Onikoko River in Abeokuta. “We have also talked to residents of Eruwuru in Sagamu, Ijamode, Isaka and Owode-Yewa in Ado-Odo/Ota Local Government areas. “We have used different platforms, including jingles, seminars and advertisements to urge farmers along the coastal areas and riverbanks to take advantage of the weather outlook and plan the planting and harvesting properly to prevent damages to their crops and livestock,” he said. The state government, Oresanya said, had also taken steps to improve waste management across the council areas through its Public Private Partnership (PPP). He said that the ministry had also partnered with chairmen and other leaders of various Community Development Associations (CDAs) to prevent indiscriminate dumping of refuse in the drainage channels to avoid blockage. The commissioner explained further that the state government would continue to monitor water levels of the dams, including the Oyan Dam, to know the appropriate time to open them up in order to prevent flooding. On Ecological Fund, Oresanya said that the state has not received any ecological fund since the inception of the Dapo Abiodun-led administration in 2019. 