Akwa Ibom has upgraded Akwa Ibom State Broadcasting Corporation (AKBC) with the inauguration of a new state-of-the-art digital touch screen television studio at the transmitting station in Ntak Inyang. Inaugurating the studio on behalf of the state government, the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Ini Ememobong, described the facility, which competes favourably with any known TV studio in Nigeria, as a dream come true. He expressed appreciation to the state Governor, Udom Emmanuel, for his support towards the actualisation of the project and commended the management of AKBC, led by the Director-General, Dr. Anietie Ukpe, for working diligently towards putting the digital studio in place to improve its reach. While on a live interview in the studio after the inauguration, the commissioner admonished employees to showcase best performance. On the achievements of Emmanuel, Ememobong described the governor as a master strategist and excellent negotiator, who goes all out to get the best for his people, stressing that Emmanuel would stop at nothing to register the presence of Akwa Ibom State in the broadcasting world. Earlier, the Director-General of AKBC, Dr. Anietie Ukpe, appreciated the commissioner for his contributions to the information sector, explaining that he had provided vision, direction, motivation and inspiration for staff and different parastatals of the Ministry. The Director, News and Current Affairs of AKBC, Mrs. Florence Umoetuk, thanked the commissioner for the visit and asked that the appreciation of the management and staff of AKBC for the newly commissioned Digital TV studio be extended to the governor.
Meanwhile, the Director of Public Relations in the Ministry, Mrs Grace Akpan, has commended what she described as boom in human capacity development in the ministry under Ememobong. She said the staff of the ministry have not only received different professional training in Nigeria, but have undergone training in Dubai, United Arab Emirate, United Kingdom, Rwanda, Egypt and The Gambia, among others. She spoke while representing Ememobong on Detail Radio segment of the programme, “Service Brief” on Inspiration Radio 105.9FM. Akpan said, in addition to staff training, Ememobong had motivated staff with birthday and marriage commemorations. She lauded the foundation laid by successive administrations, pointing out that the ministry had gone through changes since state creation. According to her, the Ministry’s focal role has remained bridging of Information gap between government and the citizenry through effective dissemination of government policies, programmes and activities to the populace for cordial relationship. 