Over 1,500 teachers, whose appointments were nullified by the Osun State government, stormed the streets of Osogbo, yesterday, in protest and called on stakeholders and well-meaning citizens of the state to prevail on Governor Ademola Adeleke to absorb them. At the inception of his administration, Adeleke had, through an executive order, nullified the recruitment of the teachers, among other workers said to have been illegally employed by the immediate past administration of Adegboyega Oyetola. The new government claimed that Oyetola, in the twilight of his administration, having lost the July 16, 2022 governorship election, hurriedly employed some workers as parting gifts to his political supporters. But the teachers argue that their employment followed due process and that they have no affiliation with the All Progressives Congress (APC) as rumoured. Armed with placards with various inscriptions such as, “We Followed Due Process, Please Don’t Send Us Back to the Streets”, “We Lost Four Colleagues Already, Please, Consider Our Plight”, “Osun State Students/Pupils Need Us”, “Please Rescue Us,” the teachers demonstrated peacefully and urged the stakeholders in the state to come to their aid. One of the teachers, Emmanuel Adedeji, said they were professionally qualified to take up the job and had undergone rigorous screening during recruitment.
“I am one of the 1,500 newly recruited teachers for primary and secondary schools in Osun. I was given an appointment letter in September 30, 2022 and the process for this recruitment began in 2020 through 2022 when we were told to pick up our appointment letters. Immediately, we were given appointment letters, we all reported to our primary places of assignments.
“We are pleading with all stakeholders and well-meaning citizens of the state to plead with the governor to reconsider us and give us a positive response. We are dying in silence,” he added. Another sacked teacher, Ishola Yunusi, urged Governor Adeleke not to send them back to the streets over their employment review. Adeleke had constituted a committee to review the appointments and recruitments made by his predecessor. The committee is yet to make its report public.