The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has said plans are underway to rebuild and develop markets across the state. The government noted that it was pertinent to get the support of the market leaders before proceeding on the project. The governor, who said this at a meeting with leaders of market women associations across the state, urged traders to support the project, ensure a clean and conducive environment for commerce. He said: “The design of Ekiosa market is ready but we can’t start the construction without the input of market women. They need to look at our design and when they are pleased with it, then we would go ahead with the groundbreaking ceremony so that we can commence construction. In the design, we have a playground for children, creche, primary, healthcare centre and other facilities. We need the input of market women. When you are satisfied with the design, we will then commence the building. We can’t embark on the project now because of the election, which will disturb the delivery of the project. We should be patient and allow the election to pass and after which we will do the foundation laying ceremony and start building it.” On the state of Oba market, the governor said: “Trading in some parts of the market will make it difficult to rebuild it. If you people can help us move them from that part to another, it will be easier for us to start the construction.” He noted: “We need to form a market committee before the end of February. Members of the committee will come from Oredo Head of Local Government Administration (HOLGA), government officials and the market women group. The committee will agree on when contractors will be mobilised to site as well as help clear the traders at the burnt site of the Oba Market to enable us commence construction work. We will also form another committee that will help us with a list of markets that we need to build in the state before the end of our tenure. The committee should be formed before the end of this week. He challenged president of the market women, Chief of Staff to the Governor, Oredo, Ikpoba-Okah and Egor HOLGAs to come together and form a committee within one week and the list of markets to be developed. The governor added: “Edo Central and Edo North senatorial districts should also meet and do likewise to let us know the main markets to build for the people as the association will help us with the necessary information that will help us do the needful. We are doing our best as government to light up the state to help market women extend their sales period. But this effort has led to the state being dirtier. The dirt around our markets is too much. We must clean Edo. We call on you to help us and join hands with the government to clean Edo State.” 