Having read Dayo Omoogun’s article, published in the opinion column of The Guardian newspapers of 10/01/2023 titled “Akoko-Edo marginalisation: their part, our part”, where he vividly adumbrated the plight of the Akoko Edo people, of the Northern part of Edo State, in the hands of successive governments, I cannot help but comment, through this piece, on one of the objects that provoked his lamentations: the perennial neglect, to which the Ojirami Dam, mentioned in the said article has become. It has now become, probably, in government parlance, an Edo State white elephant project of immense proportions, with the attendant gloom and doom ramifications to the concerned contiguous communities of that part of the state. I am not unaware that whenever citizens demand that Government play its part as contained in Section 14 of the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended): section 14(2)(b) states “the security and welfare of the people shall be the primary purpose of Government;” their functionaries are quick to respond, that such role of Government had often been rendered inconsequential, by case law, as non-justiceable; by the highest Court of the land. The relevant question, to however be answered; by the Edo State Government, currently headed by His Excellency, Godwin Obaseki, is: where is the place of the well-being, of, not less than a third, of the governed in Edo State, which lacks essential and basic supply of water in the affairs of men? Is it not then proper, to say, that the Ojirami Dam, which, in its prime, supplied water continuously to six local government areas out of the 18 in the state, ought to be given the urgent attention it deserves? Certainly. The Ojirami Dam which was conceived, brought about and commissioned during the Military Regime of General Yakubu Gowon was basically built to ameliorate the dire water problems of a substantial population of the state, which it performed until decay and atrophy gradually crept in; due mostly to lack of maintenance culture prevalent in our peculiar clime. It is difficult to immediately and completely quantify the monumental losses the Akoko-Edo people have been suffering from, due to lack of this water; ranging from health problems, economic stagnation and almost total cessation of agricultural activities. No one is in doubt, as to what provision of adequate portable water supply can do to the health of humans, animals, crops and businesses generally. Didn’t Fela Anikulapo Kuti, in one of his songs not say, ‘waterrrr e no get enemy’? We should not forget that one of the potent essentials for the cure for COVID-19 pandemic currently ravaging the world is proper water hygiene. It is my opinion that lack of good water supply has played major role in the spread of otherwise easily contained diseases found in the area. The recent news, that the Edo State Government is empowering farmers across the entire state with farming equipment; to meet the seasonal exigency, which in itself is good and laudable, have however now turned sour; as no single farmer in the entire Akoko Edo Local Government area was empowered; because of lack of adequate water not provided by the same State government!!! The government would do well, to urgently resuscitate the Ojirami Dam which serves these various agrarian communities, which, with proper harnessing, could turn to great source of diversification; culminating in employment opportunities for our mass of unemployed youths, and its ultimate role of becoming harbinger of the areas, taking their rightful places; as food basket of the state. The Edo State Government should now, as a matter of urgency in putting the welfare of the people of Akoko-Edo and the entire Northern part in proper perspective, begin to put the water Engineers to work; comprehensively map the dam; re-lay and fix the rusted pipes, collaborate with the Federal Ministry of Water Resources, acquire the needed chemicals to treat the water and keep the Dam working again. The Akoko-Edo people will be waiting to see whether His Excellency, our Governor, would, like, as prevalent in the boxing game, let our people’s uppercuts continue, or fulfil one of his promises; of making Ojirami Dam work again; and like Moses in the Bible, strike the Dam, to make it gush out water again, and bring happiness and prosperity to the people before his tenure ends.
Amune is a lawyer based in Lagos.