Five days to presidential election, the governorship candidate of Social Democratic Party (SDP) in Rivers State, Senator Magnus Abe, has again raised the alarm over rising security challenges in the state, charging the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security agencies to adhere to the rules and ensure peaceful polls in the state. The senator, who represented Rivers South East Senatorial District, at the weekend in Port Harcourt, pointed out that electoral challenges are caused by persons, who are not ready to accept the will of the majority and election results. He said it was undemocratic for people to ferment trouble in an attempt to control outcome of elections. “As true democrats, there is no need for elections if we are not ready to take the outcome.  Every problem of election is caused and fermented by those, who are not ready to accept the will of the  majority. People want to control the outcome of election, this cannot help our country to move forward,” he said. According to him, his party is willing to accept election results if the procedures and rules published by INEC are adhered to. “We are democrats, we will submit to the will of the people. Our prayer is that people should be allowed to decide freely and fairly. And wherever they would like to see their future, let them use their own finger to press on the future they want. Whatever the people of Rivers State decide, we will go along with them. But they should be allowed to decide,” he said. Abe also called on the state Commissioner of Police, Okon Effiong, to quell crises in parts of the state, especially recent shooting at a fishing port in a border settlement between Ogoni and Andoni communities. Abe spoke just as the National Coordinator of Conscience of Ogoni People (COP), Gani Topba, said political candidates in Ogoniland, including Abe, should be made to sign an undertaking not to sponsor violence during the election. Topba alleged that some politicians were planning to use some youths to carry out violence during the election, urging youths not to accept to bear arms or involve in ballot snatching. 