Abia State Governor, Dr Okezie Ikpeazu spoke to newsmen on his senatorial ambition, his expectations from the 2023 general elections and how to tackle violent agitations in the Southeast. MUYIWA ADEYEMI was there.

How are South East governors handling this issue of sit-at-home that’s threatening peaceful election in the zone? 
It is a very unfortunate thing. Let me start by saying that I don’t know anything about this Simon Ekpa. I understand the philosophy behind what Nnamdi Kanu is doing and he is very reasonable in his argument, but what I don’t agree with, is his style. He is also available for discussion because if the Federal Government had agreed to talk with him, assured and reassured him of steps that were being taken to ensure that things didn’t escalate we probably wouldn’t be here. But Ekpa is a total embarrassment. I saw video clips of about five young boys who were shut as they came to burn down a police station in Anambra State. So, we keep destroying our youths, we keep killing them and showing them to a road that leads nowhere. Very soon somebody will say he is supporting Ekpa as Igbo agenda that is not what we need now. On your question about what the governors are doing, I’m not the chairman of the South East Governors Forum. However, our position initially was to set up Ebubeagu on the one hand and said we are going to engage. What we meant by engagement at that time was to talk with the Federal Government because it had Nnamdi Kanu in custody. But I think it is also hypocritical for the Federal Government to think that the solution to this problem will come from the state government alone. For me, I have advised my citizens not to listen to Ekpa.
We have respect for Nnamdi Kanu even as we don’t agree with his style. We think that if he is engaged properly, we can get something with the IPOB issue. But I’ve told everybody not to listen to Ekpa, because he has no point. He is in Finland and I expect that we should use a two-pronged approach. While we try to hold down our citizens here to ignore him, the Federal Government should engage the diplomatic gear to make sure he is brought home.
The Finnish government cannot be in Nigeria and their Ambassador is listening to broadcasts and post on the Internet that creates tension, and disaffection, leading to murder and arson and we still maintain such relationships. So, we don’t have to wait until it gets too serious. I think that the IGP should engage Interpol and the Minister of Foreign Affairs should engage the Ambassador. Nigeria should launch a report to the Finnish government and the international community to officially say that Ekpa is a nuisance who stays in Finland to launch attacks and missiles that are killing our people, destroying businesses and livelihoods and threatening our democracy. We need to escalate this and this is not what the state government alone can do. What’s your pitch to Abia South electorate in your senatorial race against an experienced senator like Enyinnaya Abaribe? 
Luckily for me, I’m running this election on my track record and I challenge all those who are running the same election to show their scorecards. Former Governor Orji Uzor-Kalu has had 25 bills and motions in the Senate in four and half years, former Governor Theodore Orji has had 12 to his name in seven and half years, and the man you are talking about has had only two since 2007 that is for 16 years. You can research and see it.
In the first place, if a person has the people’s mandate, his intervention, his service, and his stewardship should be obtained from the mandate you were given. The person should not change the mandate. The person should not go to the Nigerian senate and arrogate himself the Public Relations Officer or whatever he calls himself. He was sent there to develop bills, support bills, move motions, and create laws that will benefit the ordinary person from Abia South because we are traders. We are champions in SMEs. I give it to him, he has promoted made in Aba in his own way, because, at times, he organises Trade Fair and all that, but that is not also why he was sent there. He was sent there to craft laws that would give an enabling environment for the traders and the SMEs to thrive. We expect him to speak to government to the point where they will provide funds, and machinery and also provide a window for SMEs and trading to flourish. He took the job of Igbo PRO when he discovered that he has failed in the other parameters and needed to adjust.
As I speak to you, you can’t see a single Federal Government presence in Abia South. The road that leads from Aba to Port Harcourt, which is the oxygen valve into the Aba trading community, you can’t go there. Before I became governor, the road to Calabar could not be accessed. Customs officers are still coming to warehouses in Aba to search and impound goods and somebody is there as a senator talking. It takes one month to convey a container from Apapa Wharf to Aba. A trader who borrows money from the bank with interest to pay will have his goods in the Wharf for six months and the interest will keep growing without him making any profit. The dollar would have jumped up and down by then and the man cannot break even. All of these have been happening for sixteen years at what point will the change come? 
This and more was the reason I’m remodelling Ariaria International Market and you can see what I’ve done there. I have also opened the channels through which Akwa-Ibom people could come to trade in Aba through Ekwereazu Road, dualisation of Ururuka Road, through Ukaegbu, Umuola and Ehere Road. Also through the Eziukwu Road that connects to the Cemetery Market, through Osusu Road and Faulks Road leads to Ariaria, as well as Ngwa Road that connects to Ahia-Ohuru.
For the SMEs, I’ve sent 30 persons to China for capacity building. I’ve built a brand-new garment factory and a brand-new shoe factory that produces 5,000 shoes including the ones used by NYSC members. So, the quality of shoes and products from Aba has improved. I have also enhanced the return of Geometric Power in Aba, which will cover nine local governments in Abia State. I supported them to get the support $50 million from Afreximbank.
Today, power in Aba is about 18 hours and will be made 24 hours very soon. However, it is a better improvement now than where it used to be as we await further improvement. I have promoted the Enyimba Economic City to the point that I’m convinced that even if it didn’t happen while still a governor, I’m sure Enyimba Economic City will be a tangible reality in the next government. Trying to create a Dubai, a manufacturing platform for the first time that will enable the Igbo man to manufacture and export for the time without going to Lagos, Kano, Abuja or Port Harcourt. These are things I need to follow up with to make sure I get the Federal Government’s impetus to deal with them. Because I know the problems and I’ve plotted a pathway that can create a sustainable solution. I’m not going to the Senate to be the mouthpiece of Ndigbo. I’m going there to be the advocate of the issues that concern my people in Abia South, which has to do with all those who do their businesses there, visit there, and reside there notwithstanding where they hail from. I’m going to attract infrastructure, I’m going to intervene in ways that will affect their lives positively. Our people are still backwards in terms of ICT and I think there’s a need for us to have a huge change. It is not going to be difficult for me.
All I need is to push issues to the fore. Judge me with what I’ve done. If anybody has done better than me in any way, vote for that person. But if not, trust me. Everything I promised to do as governor, I may have not been able to do hundred per cent of them, but at least I achieved 80 per cent. These things are clear. In Aba, I have reduced the travelling time between Osisioma Junction and the City centre. Before, it may take about one hour, but now it’s less than five minutes to do that on the account of that flyover there. Ariaria is becoming a true International Market now with CCTV everywhere. As we speak now, more works are ongoing on different roads like Faulks Road. Somebody said that a governor for four years is bigger than a Senator for 20 years and I say that’s the worst exhibition of ignorance. These are two different positions with two different roles. Okay, where are the laws that are protecting the interest of Aba traders, where is the advocacy that will make sure the customs will not do what they are doing in Aba? Is it the governor that will make these federal laws? So, this is my way of saying that we cannot justify failure nor are we going to change the goalpost in the middle of the game.
We are not going to ask anybody to set his questions in an examination and still answer them. We sent someone on an assignment and we have seen nothing. I can’t even name one completed project by NDDC in Abia South. With due respect, he has been deputy governor and whatever credit that is accruable to his service years as a public servant, I leave it with him, but going forward, we need somebody that’s a little bit more innovative that understands the problems of our people and can address such problems. What if the people say enough of this Igbo advocacy, let’s talk about what concerns us. You need to be an Aba man, an Abia South man and an Abia man before you become an Igboman. There’s no Igboman that doesn’t have a state of origin. As we approach the 2023 presidential election, how do you rate the chances of the candidates? 
I wouldn’t want to make any prediction now, I still believe that the PDP presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar still needs to do one or two things just like I think Labour Party candidate, Peter Obi, still has to do one or two things going forward.
As for Tinubu, I don’t envy him because some of his party people are fighting him. But he’s a very experienced politician and a very good strategist. If he is in his element, he’s going to be very formidable at the end of the day because they never gave him a chance to emerge at the primary, but he emerged somehow. So, that same thing could play out. If I’m in this race, I’ll not ignore Tinubu. I will not also ignore any of the candidates. But I don’t want us to make religion or ethnicity a major factor, because it will further divide us. We’re already broken as a country and we don’t need to put another hot knife through our butter. What should Nigerians go for while choosing their next president? 
Sincerely speaking, at times I like to see myself not as a leader or politician, but just as ‘citizen Okezie’ who is just a Nigerian. I think we, the political class have succeeded in confusing the people of Nigeria so much. We’re now afraid of change, because of the calamity that fell upon us as a result of the change we embraced in 2015. So, looking at that, I think Tinubu’s greatest burden is the record of his party since 2015. But there is this notion that he’s not campaigning with the records of his party?  
How far can a human being separate himself from his buttocks? It’s a big problem for him because it’s difficult to detach himself from his party. If you put me in his shoes, I’ll own my party and campaign with whatever is left of the party because he was part of the forces that formed APC. So, if he denies that party now, it means he may have become a fair-weather person. Just like what President Olusegun Obasanjo said a few years ago when he was campaigning against President Goodluck Jonathan that it’s a different thing to give a person a job but you cannot do the job for the person. I don’t think it’s a good thing to do that. The hallmark of leadership is the ability to also choose. So, when you stand surety and said to Nigerians, vote for Mr ‘A’ I should be able to say you are with Mr ‘A’. If he turns out good fine, but if it doesn’t turn out quite good, you should be able to say you’re sorry you did it, but let’s move forward.  So, it gives us an idea of where you are coming from that you’re sincere and that is you. If nobody wants to take responsibility and nobody wants to be part of it because it’s not looking as expected now, then it means also that there is something we need to adjust about our leadership paradigm. What is your reaction to the suffering and crisis brought by the implementation of the re-designed naira notes and fuel scarcity barely a few days before the election? 
It is very unfortunate. For me, I think that Nigeria is ripped somehow for a cashless economy as we see in other countries, but these things are planned. So, for me, I think we need to go cashless, but we need to phase it.
This administration has had seven-and-half years. I heard somebody say, that this policy is at the centre of this administration’s anti-corruption, anti-insecurity whatever they wanted to do. The person is saying that the policy is at the centre of whatever they want to do and I say why take them seven and half years to realise that this was critical to whatever they wanted to do? Whenever a leader wakes up and sees his citizens naked in the bank, you see them crying and shouting, it shows that the policy that makes them suffer like that needs to be adjusted.
Forget about whether it targeted some politicians or whatever, but the people have to be alive to reap the benefits of a free and fair election. They know also that there are so many leakages in the system, because at times you see some people spreading the same scarce new naira notes that other people are looking for. So, the already existing inequality in society has widened so much and this is what is leading to the tension in the system and insecurity itself. Because when people are frustrated they may take laws into their hands. I’m sure that the tension in the system is palpable. So, for me, I would have thought that we do it over a period of time, not the way it is done now.
If you look at our inability to provide fuel for our everyday business, it is a big shame. Our inability to determine what quantity of fuel we require for a day in this country is disturbing. We can’t even count our cars. How can it be that this has become our lot as a people? I don’t understand why fuel prices are different from one city to another in the same country. This country in terms of ease of doing business is very hostile right now. You can’t advise your brother who has one million dollars to come and invest it in Nigeria. This place is very volatile, harsh and unpredictable. Today, as we speak, there is a black market for both the dollar and the naira in our own country. So, the impact on SMEs and the average traders in Ariaria International Market is very negative and worrisome. I’m bothered that our leaders will sit, watch their citizens crying, go naked in public and they’re not touched. Honestly, I’ve not heard such before. How much of a setback is the death of Prof. Ikonne to Abia PDP as governorship election draws closer?
I must say that it is quite regrettable. That gentleman, Prof Uche Ikonne who was our candidate then was a visionary gentleman, who in our calculation at that time we believed will do a good job by taking Abia to the next level, given the fact that some foundational things have been done and needed somebody that understands the vision that will explode with it. But we lost him and he is no more. That was a setback to be sincere because his vision, energy and vigour are no more. But quite curiously, our party is perhaps stronger now than we were even before he died. The reason is that his emergence just like is seen everywhere when primaries are conducted created some resentment among people who ran in the primary and felt that they were more qualified than the professor but could not clinch the ticket. So, what the party did this time with limited 14 days, which we already lost three days in some important procedures was to hold a caucus meeting with both those who agree and those who don’t agree. We sat and said let’s move to the same Council where Ikonne hailed from to look for a new candidate. Suffice it to say that the agreement was that the party will microzone the governorship position to Abia North Senatorial Zone, which is a part of the Old Bende Division, when Isiala-Ngwa North LGA in Abia Central but a part of the Old Aba Division must have concluded their eight years to put the whole thing to 16 at levels with Old Bende. We also held the same meeting with a part of the Old Bende in Abia Central Senatorial Zone. Note that Abia Central Senatorial Zone is an Amalgam. It’s made up of three Local Government Areas from the Old Aba Division and another three Local Government Areas from the Old Bende Division. So, we held a meeting with those three councils from Old Bende in Abia Central and informed them that we had already discussed with their kinsmen from Abia North Senatorial Zone that whenever it’s their turn, they’ll agree on how it’ll go. Abia South Senatorial Zone, which is also a part of Old Aba Division, also has six Local Government Areas with two from Ukwa and four from Ngwa. The same meeting was equally held and the six councils agreed that whenever power returns to Abia South the Ukwa people will be in strong contention for it. So, the whole Senatorial Zones and ethnic interests within Abia were accommodated in the power-sharing formation to the extent that we now know the particular area power will go to after many years. So, all of this helped the party to be stronger. So, immediately after our candidate emerged, the reception was like wildfire and all the other candidates are now jittering. Some people are saying why didn’t we start with this man and all that, but that’s how God wants it. It’s our duty to make plans as humans but the confirmation of those plans resides with God who we cannot question. I think the party is stronger. Are you saying that APC and LP are not threats to PDP in Abia? 
APC is not in Abia State. Yes, the senator of Abia North is an APC member, but there is so much disagreement among them from the House of Representatives members and the Senator and that’s very good for the PDP. When you come to their governorship candidate, he doesn’t have the blessings of some strong political office holders. What about the Labour Party, you see no threat? 
Labour Party on its own is also a dysfunctional party because its governorship candidate and his deputy are from the same Federal Constituency. While the governorship candidate is from Arochukwu Local Government Area, his deputy is from Ohafia Local Council. So, what are you telling the rest of Abia? If someone lacks a fair sense of equity, it doesn’t matter what the person is saying. The person can say he’s looking for the most qualified, who told him that it resides in him to determine who’s qualified or not? Why does such a person arrogate such power to himself? So, for someone not to know that he needs to spread a little bit means that either he lacks a proper understanding of the political topography of Abia State or the person just doesn’t care about equity and spread. I know that his dilemma is that he wants to be in two places at a time. He wants to be in Arochukwu and as well be somewhere in Isiala-Ngwa, him alone.
 So, whenever it’s convenient, he chooses where to be. Fraudulent people don’t thrive in politics for a long time. You’re dealing with human beings. You can cheat somebody today, but you can’t guarantee you’ll cheat the person every day. The best way to deal with people in politics is to be as open and transparent as possible all the time. If you make a mistake, you apologise as a son, but if you continue to postulate and you’re not steady and nobody knows what you want to do it will not help. He also has issues with his political constituency. In how many years he has been with PDP, APC, APGA and LP. It is either he is desperate or he is just looking for a platform. There is no philosophy and no background.
He has strived very hard to attach himself to Peter Obi but incidentally, both of them are so far apart in terms of philosophy and approach. People know Obi as a very conservative, unassuming person who walks into a filling station to buy his own fuel, but this other guy is a bourgeoisie that flies and perches around. He’s attaching himself to Obi because it is convenient now otherwise, Obi even knows that they are not the same. 