To ensure access to quality healthcare, the Lagos State Health Management Agency (LASHMA) has offered free health insurance to the vulnerable in Ijede Local Council Development Area (LCDA). The General Manager, LASHMA, Dr. Emmanuella Zamba, who spoke at the flag-off of EKO Social Health Alliance ‘(EKOSHA) Community Storm’ in the council, commended the governor for his support, especially in providing special funds for the actualisation of free health insurance coverage for the vulnerable in the state through EKOSHA, in accordance with the provisions of the State Health Scheme (LSHS) law. She explained that the initiative is designed to provide a sustainable structure for the implementation of ILERA EKO free health plans for the vulnerable in the state. She said the scheme is part of the agency’s strategies to attain Universal Health Coverage in the state. According to her, the provision aligns with the new National Health Insurance Act (NHIA), which makes health insurance mandatory in Nigeria. She assure the initiative would be at the forefront of championing the inclusiveness of the vulnerable and preventing the de-enfranchising of residents at the grassroots in accessing quality and affordable healthcare. Dr. Zamba pledged that EKOSHA will collaborate with local government areas and local council development areas to ensure its presence in communities. She said that 30 EKOSHA field officers, who will liaise with the community structures to identify vulnerable residents within the communities and facilitate their onboarding process using the Equity Fund from the Lagos State Government and the Basic Healthcare Provision Funds (BHCPF) from the Federal Government, have been engaged. The General Manager said that EKOSHA is also at the forefront of partnering with the private sector for resource mobilisation and economic empowerment of the vulnerable to take them to a higher economic class. She added that 1,000 Point of Sales (POS) systems would be distributed to vulnerable in Ijede LCDA courtesy of First City Monument Bank to make the vulnerable to be financially independent and uplift their economic status. The Chairman of Ijede LCDA, Motunrayo Gbadebo-Alogba, represented by the Vice Chairman, Abdulaziz Femi Kabir, in her remarks, commended Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and Zamba, for the laudable gesture at the flag-off of EKOSHA Community Storm at Ijede LCDA. She said that there is no doubt that the programme will be a benefit to the vulnerable and also improve the healthy living of the people within the community. The Chairman urged those enrolled to utilise the opportunity by visiting the hospital when unwell.