Civil rights advocacy group, Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA), condemned recurring attacks on political opponents and non-members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ebonyi State. The National Coordinator, HURIWA, Comrade Emmanuel Onwubiko, made this call in Abuja, at the press briefing, urged the Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba to change the Police Commissioner in the state, Aliyu Garba for alleged complicity and for reportedly working in cahoots with the Ebonyi State Governor, Dave Umahi; and the ruling APC in the state to terrorize opposition parties. The group described anti-democratic tendencies in open display in Ebonyi and vowed to petition foreign missions, particularly the United States, the United Kingdom, and Australia on the heightened levels of threats to the lives of political opposition politicians in Ebonyi State. HURIWA vowed to call for visa restriction against Governor Umahi if, within seven working days, there is no significant improvement in the respect to the fundamental human rights of all politicians irrespective of affiliations. The group also condemned the use of the state-owned security outfit, Ebubeagu, to intimidate political opponents of Governor Umahi of the APC in Ebonyi. Umahi, whose eight-year tenure as governor ends on May 31, is a senatorial candidate of the APC for the district. HURIWA said it is on record that Governor Umahi, out of intolerance for political opponents in the state, directed the police and other security agencies to withdraw orderlies and security details from candidates of political parties, directors-general party officials other than the APC. Onwubiko said: “Political violence of any form is an offence under the Electoral Act 2022 and a crime under extant criminal laws in Nigeria and its manifestations should therefore be arrested immediately as it endangers national security amid the forthcoming elections. “HURIWA condemns the harassment, intimidation,  killings of political opposition in Ebonyi State and the criminal and anti-democratic and unconstitutional activities of Ebubeagu in Ebonyi as a tool against opponents of the governor. “We call on the IGP to change the commissioner of police in Ebonyi who is accused of compromising his neutrality and allowing the criminality of Ebubeagu to continue. We also call on the National Assembly, the DSS, the National Security Adviser, President Muhammadu Buhari to take steps to curtail the excesses of these barbaric outfits that has derailed. “As a group, we also demand for independent investigation of all the allegations of politically motivated killings in Enonyi State and ask the outgoing governor to be a democrat and allow for freedom of expression and information and freedom of movements by all political contestants in Ebonyi State. “HURIWA will not hesitate to write to the USA, UK Australia on the heightened levels of threats to the lives of political opposition politicians in Ebonyi State and call for visa restriction for the governor if within seven working days there is no significant improvement in the respect to the fundamental human rights of all politicians irrespective of affiliations.” 