The All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential Council has accused Peter Obi, the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, of running away from his Anambra and southeast homestead to stage campaigns in Lagos because of the alleged iniquities he committed during his time as Anambra governor. The APC Presidential Council also said that Obi has become panicky in the fear of Bola Tinubu’s favourable emergence as the next president of Nigeria. The Tinubu campaign team precisely accused Obi of bad leadership in Anambra state with high insecurity, political intolerance and rebellion, lack of popularity resulting in failure to conduct council elections and supposed failures in other spheres of leadership as governor. Southeast spokesman of the Tinubu campaign council, Dr. Josef Onoh, said that Obi’s Lagos rally was devoid of practical participation of his media warriors, stating that the only achievement Obi recorded in Anambra state was a trace of alcoholic establishment in the state. Onoh, in a statement made available to The Guardian, recalled that Obi’s successor, Willy Obiano, stated that he met high level of insecurity he inherited from Obi, same as Victor Umeh’s disclosure that he did everything thing possible to convince Obi to work for his own party, APGA, by conducting local government elections to have other APGA elected executives instead of Obi being surrounded by 30 PDP state lawmakers and National Assembly members; a plea he said Obi refused to heed, resulting in the crisis in APGA which Obi later ditched for the PDP, and from there to the Labour Party. “Even at that, the then National Chairman of Labour Party, Dan Nwanyanwu complained about Obi refusing to allow the Labour Party conduct its activities in the state and refused the LP use of the Alex Ekwueme Square in Awka, yet today Obi is running under the Labour Party. “Under Peter Obi as governor, kidnapping, robbery were very high; he could not conduct local government elections and today the Labour party he denied use of the venue is the party he is flying its presidential ticket today. That is hypocrisy and irony of political life,” Onoh said. He further recalled that Obi himself had conceded that age was not a barrier to good governance, indicating that Tinubu was ahead of Obi and other presidential candidates which, according to Onoh, makes him a candidate worth voting for. “These are reasons Obi is shifting to Lagos where Asiwaju and his subsequent successors have made a landmark and a center of excellence. Obi was in Lagos because of the foundation, infrastructural development and the security Asiwaju entrenched in Lagos which Obi could not put in place in Anambra state, except for a brewery for the people to get drunk and forget their sorrows of a bad administration. “What I am saying to the south easterners is that they shouldn’t get emotional or be deceived because the clock is winding down with all the indices pointing to Asiwaju in this presidential election and like I have always urged, we should not commit political suicide by casting all their eggs in one basket,” Onoh said that if the southeast must benefit from the incoming Tinubu government, then the region should be active participants and open supporters at this moment, disclosing that records are being compiled on how each member is contributing at this stage. He stated that comparing Obi with Tinubu on governorship performance does not arise since one question about Tinubu’s report card gives over 30 answers. He described as delusion the belief in some quarters in the southeast that the northern oligarchy has ditched Tinubu, stressing that the 93 local government councils in the southeast are running far below making much mark in the 774 councils in the country. “So if the southeast does not do its mathematics well and gamble unwisely, it will return to the 1999 status quo and the round tripping will continue once more with our people complaining. This is my word,” Onoh said. “Finally, on the propaganda being peddled that Asiwaju is going to marry a new wife, it’s true because his new wife is the Aso Rock presidential villa and our most distinguished Senator Oluremi Tinubu becomes the first lady of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and her new husband will now be Mr. President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu,” Onoh added. 