• Lagos police fault report on attacks, attend to 13,325 distress calls on election day, says Hundeyin
• Ladipo market is calm, says Nwankwo There was mild apprehension, yesterday, following unconfirmed reports of thugs going on rampage on the streets of Lagos allegedly because of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential candidate by an opposition candidate had won majority of votes in Lagos State. The alleged attack and rampage was reported in Abibu Oki Street, off Broad Street in Mandilas market, Lagos Island, where the thugs allegedly chased out shop owners, robbing them and destroying properties. Similarly, there was a report that the multi-billion naira auto parts market at Ladipo, Mushin, was set ablaze by hoodlums. As a result of the report, traders cautiously shunned the markets, leaving roads and markets, which used to be busy, relatively scanty. A trader in Ladipo market, who lives at Jakande Estate, known simply as Andrew, said he stayed away to avoid being caught in the melee. But The Guardian investigation to the market showed that there was no fire, though, the market was scanty as few traders were on ground. Also, President General, Ladipo Auto Spare parts Market, Jude Nwankwo, has denied reports of attacks in the market and countered reports of setting the market ablaze by hoodlums. He said: “Ladipo market is calm, there is peace in Ladipo Market, it is not on fire. I call on security agents in Lagos State to secure the market.  I am grateful to everyone for their concerns about Ladipo Market. ALSO, Lagos State Police Command has said the report of attacks on Igbos in Lagos was fake and an attempt to cause chaos in the state. Speaking with The Guardian on the incident, Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) , Benjamin Hundeyin,  said: “Men of the Command raced to Mandilas, Lagos Island after the report. “The market association agreed that shops would remain closed yesterday and today. Some traders this morning (yesterday) decided to renege on the agreement and open shops. Some hoodlums took it upon themselves to enforce compliance. They reached out to the police and went there to prevent people from chasing them. “The hoodlums fled upon sighting police patrol vans. Not one shop was vandalised. Not one person was robbed. Not one person was injured. Normalcy was swiftly returned and officers remained on ground.” “The police remained on ground to ensure that the matter did not degenerate into chaos. The same people that tweeted that there was chaos did not tweet that police were there. It’s unfair. “Also, the Command attended to distress calls in 13,325 polling units, while the election was disrupted in 28 polling units. “It took the tireless efforts of our officers to achieve such a result. It can only get better.” Meanwhile, Lagos Police has said they are yet to arrest the attackers of Efidi Bina Jennifer, the lady who was stabbed at a polling unit in Surulere. There were videos of her face being stitched after the attacks and pictures of her returning to exercise her vote. 