Omni-channel retailer, FoodCo Nigeria, has announced the launch of the FoodCo retail leadership programme in line with its commitment to building capacity for modern retail in Nigeria by providing a platform for knowledge and skills training for aspiring professionals. The programme, which comprises practical and theoretical modules in a range of disciplines including Audit and Finance, Retail Operations and Management, and Food Production, will expose participants to specialised courses and real time immersion in modern retail functions. Speaking at the launch, Chief Executive Officer, FoodCo Nigeria, Ade Sun-Basorun, expressed optimism that the programme would address the talent gap in the Nigerian formal retail sector and help build capacity to drive growth and sustainability within the space. Sun-Basorun said: “As retail continues to reposition itself to meet changing dynamics of technological era and shifts in customer demands, there is an urgent need for operators to build capacity that adequately addresses the needs of the market. “Given our history as one of the pioneers of modern retail in Nigeria, we understand the challenge with getting fit-for-purpose human capital to drive growth within the industry. That’s the motivation behind this programme. We believe that it will be an important intervention that will help nurture the next generation of leaders for the Nigeria formal retail industry.” FoodCo’s retail leadership programme is designed to provide participants with the job knowledge and hands-on experience they need to succeed in their retail careers as well as make a positive impact in their communities. It will offer a unique blend of on-the-job training, mentorship and classroom learning, providing participants with a well-rounded and comprehensive experience. Participants will also have the opportunity to network with industry experts and make meaningful connections that can benefit their careers. “We believe that the future of our company and the wider Nigerian formal retail industry depends on the success of the next generation of leaders. This program is an investment in that future and we are proud to offer it to young people who are eager to learn and make a difference,” Sun-Basorun added.