The next-generation online university platform, Nexford University has secured America’s accreditation which is carried out by the Distance Education Accrediting Commission (DEAC). Nexford’s accreditation followed existing state licensure granted by the Higher Education Licensure Commission (HELC), which enables the online institution to issue degrees. The accreditation from DEAC, recognised as an accrediting agency by American Department of Education and Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA), provides an additional quality stamp and strengthens Nexford’s position in the American national higher education landscape. Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Nexford University, Fadl Al Tarzi, said the accreditation reaffirms that the school has met DEAC’s standards of quality through self-evaluation and peer-review. “We are thrilled to have earned American accreditation and proud that our skills-focused programmes, which benefit learners and employers, are being recognised for their quality. It will aid our continued growth across the world, and eventually allow us to enroll learners from 49 of the 50 American states. “Gaining America’s accreditation cements our status as a 21st century option, challenging the troubled higher education landscape nationwide. Accreditation is another sign that American regulatory bodies are recognising innovative alternatives to traditional universities who have struggled to adapt to the needs of today’s employers,” Tarzi said. He added that the institutional accreditation is applicable to all Nexford degrees, courses and certificate programmes. In line with the institution’s collaborative ties with employers, Tarzi said the accreditation would facilitate tax-deductible benefit for many American companies offering tuition as an employee benefit. “The benefit, worth up to $5,250 per employee per year, according to the founder, helps companies reduce costs by offering beneficial tax-deductible education reimbursement.  At a time when 69 per cent of American employers are reporting skill gaps according to a recent Wiley survey, tuition reimbursement is helping employers’ upskill employees to address internal skill gaps. “From inception, Nexford has been designed to deliver a 100 per cent online next-generation university experience, specifically to deliver high quality, yet affordable education to all, preparing its learners for 21st century workplace,” Tarzi added.