Enugu Police Command has confirmed the killing of Labour Party (LP)’s senatorial candidate for Enugu East Oyibo Chukwu and his personal assistant by gunmen. Police spokesman Daniel Ndukwu in a statement said the incident happened Wednesday when the assailants on a Hilux vehicle, attacked and set ablaze Chukwu’s campaign vehicle. Ndukwu explained that the gunmen “attacked and set ablaze the campaign vehicle of the Labour Party, at Eke-Otu Amechi-Awkunanaw Enugu, burning to death the Party’s Senatorial Candidate for Enugu East Senatorial District, Barr. Oyibo Chukwu (male) and his Personal Assistant (male) who was with him in the vehicle. “However, the miscreants were repelled by security operatives while attempting to also attack the convoy of the Governorship Candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC) at Eke, Agbani, Nkanu West LGA.” Labour Party presidential candidate Peter Obi called on security agencies to investigate and prosecute the perpetrators. “Enough of the killings, now is time for healing. I sincerely condole with the bereaved family, the Enugu East Senatorial Zone and our dear Labour Party family, for this painful loss,” Obi tweeted on Thursday. The police spokesman disclosed that some members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) were also murdered while the convoy of the All Progressive Congress (APC) governorship candidate for Enugu State Uche Nnaji was also affected. “Preliminary investigations into the incidents show that the armed hoodlums, operating in a tricycle, attacked a PDP campaign Mini Bus at Topland by Ebony Paint Road, Amechi-Awkunanaw Enugu and used petrol bomb to set it ablaze, burning to death its driver, simply identified as one KC Great (male),” Ndukwu said. Enugu State Police Commissioner Ahmed Ammani who visited the scenes of the incidents has ordered an investigation into it and condemned the attack. He commiserated with the parties and family members of the deceased, vowing to ensure that the perpetrators are fished out and made to face the full wrath of the law,” Ndukwe added. The Commissioner said the police and other security agencies toward credible polls and called on the residents not to succumb to antics of the hoodlums aimed at creating fear. 