You’re a shameless politician, gov replies Peterside
Governor Nyesom Wike has said Rivers State Government may be compelled to deploy its Neighbourhood Watch Safety Corps to maintain law and order if Nigeria Police continue to support political parties perpetuating violence in the state. He noted with dismay encouragement Rivers State Police Command has continued to give to some political actors to act lawlessly with their political activities. Speaking at the State Primary School in Elekahia, venue of the state Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Port Harcourt City Council rally, Wike said the command should not support people breaking the law. He advised the Command to safeguard the laws of the state towards forestalling a breakdown of law and order. He said:” This is what I want to tell the Nigeria Police, Rivers State Command. You are the one supporting them to disobey the law to cause violence.  Police, if you don’t want to do your duty, let us know, I will release our Neighborhood Watch Safety Corps instead. “If you don’t do your work, we will take over your work from you. You cannot support people breaking the law. You know the truth of the matter. You are scared that they may transfer you. Your duty is not to be permanent anywhere. As far as you are a security man, you can be sent anywhere, any day.” Wike accused some political actors of disobeying the statutory laws of the state and yet alleging they were being stopped from campaigning. The governor stressed that if political campaigns must be done within any public facility, the required non-refundable security fee of N5 million must be paid. WIKE also took a swipe at Dakuku Peterside, the former Director General (DG) of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), whom he described as a political neophyte, for daring him to name his preferred presidential candidate. “Shameless politician. You had a position, you cannot help your people, yet you’re coming out to open your mouth, simply because they did not give you second term to be the DG of NIMASA. You have guts to tell me I should name my presidential candidate. Are we at the same level? Failure and success, are they the same? “And let me also tell him, he does not understand the activities of G-5. I have told most people, who don’t know, the fight is like a gruella warfare. The more you look, the less you see.” Rivers State governorship candidate of the PDP, Siminialayi Fubara, who pleaded with the people to demonstrate their love for Wike by voting massively for the PDP consolidation team, said he has been well prepared to be a performing governor.