The Lawal family of Lawal village in the Baruwa area of Ipaja has denounced media reports depicting its members as suspected land grabbers that invaded the Shalom Group of Schools, a private school in the community. In the report that was published in the media, the land grabbers numbering over 40 were alledged to have sealed off the school and chased pupils away from the premises. However, spokesman of the family, Chief Moruf Owonla, aka Kaka, said the family only lawfully took possession of its landed property from the school owner, after a futile effort to recover the property. Chief Owonla explained that the land was initially taken by the Federal Government and designated a cemetery and clandestinely distributed to unknown persons. He noted that the ownership of the land has since been restored to the family by the court over a decade ago.
“It is not true that land grabbers invaded the school and chased the pupils away and sealed off the premises. On the contrary, we went to the school to take lawful possession of an acre of land that the school owner hijacked from our family using the Federal Government as a shield.
“The land measuring about 57 plots was acquired from our family by the Federal Government and designated as a public cemetery. Unfortunately, the government later shared it with unknown persons that built houses on it and we got a judgment against the Federal Government at the Federal High Court in Lagos, headed by Justice. C.E Archibong on February 20, 2012. The judgment has not been appealed to date.
“Subsequently, we got a possession order to recover our landed property on May 15, 2012, vide suit no FHC/L/CS/1033/06, and another order compelling the police and other law enforcement agencies to assist us in enforcing the judgment restoring our ownership of the land.
‘’Since then, we have been appealing to the school owner, Mr. Idowu Akinola, and others who erected buildings on our land unlawfully to come for proper ratification. While others have been complying, the school owner has refused to comply vehemently.’’ 