Chelsea pay record £105.6m for Sporting Lisbon’s Fernandez Super Eagles star, Paul Onuachu, has reportedly joined Southampton on a £15.8 million deal from Belgium’s Genk. According to hampshirelive.news, the 6ft 7ins forward was expected to undergo his medical with the club, yesterday, ahead of signing a three-and-a-half-year contract at St Mary’s, where he’ll hope to fire to them to Premier League safety. Belgian journalist, Sacha Tavolieri, said a deal has been reached between Genk and Southampton for a transfer fee of €18million (£15.8million) plus bonuses of around €3 million for Onuachu. The 28-year-old has scored 16 goals in 20 appearances so far for club and country this season and is top of the scoring charts in the Belgian Pro League, which Genk currently lead with a six-point advantage over second-placed Union Saint-Gilloise. Southampton have also agreed to sign Rennes winger Kamaldeen Sulemana for a club record £22m Meanwhile,  Arsenal has signed Chelsea midfielder Jorginho on an 18-month deal for  £12 million.
The 31-year-old, who joined Chelsea from Napoli in 2018, is into the final six months of his contract at Stamford Bridge. The Gunners turned their attentions to Jorginho after having two bids rejected by Brighton for Moises Caicedo.
Jorginho is Arsenal’s third signing of the January window, the club having previously bought Poland defender Jakub Kiwior from Spezia for 20m euros (£17.6m) and Belgium striker Leandro Trossard, who moved from Brighton for £21m. Mikel Arteta’s side are five points clear at the top of the Premier League with a game in hand on the sides immediately below them. Chelsea seem to be the busiest club on deadline day with the Blues ‘signing’ Argentine star, Enzo Fernandez for a record £105.6 million. According to reports in Portugal, Enzo Fernandez, was in Lisbon, yesterday, to undergo a medical to help facilitate a possible move from Benfica to Chelsea. Chelsea had earlier allowed Jorginho and Ziyech to leave for Arsenal and PSG respectively, but they held on to midfielder, Connor Gallagher despite interest from five Premier league clubs. Manchester United brought in Austrian midfielder, Marcel Sabitzer from Bayern Munich, while Sporting Lisbon full-back, Pedro Porro, has moved to Tottenham.