The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), All Progressives Congress (APC) and Labour Party (LP), yesterday, reeled out their security plans to Nigerians ahead of the February 25 presidential election. The parties unveiled the plans at the ‘Youth Presidential Debate’ organised by Atiku Youth World Outreach, which held in Abuja. Tagged, ‘Beyond Politics: For Love of Country,’ the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, who was represented by Mr. Onoja Ilemona, said if elected, the party would tackle the insecurity that had continued to bedevil the country. He said: “Our candidate has a five-step plan to improve the security of Nigeria. These plans include increasing the number of our gallant men and women because they are insufficient currently. “We will improve inter-agency cohesion, combat the free flow of light weapons and ammunition, and ensure better funding of security agencies.”
 Ilemona further called on the electorate to vote for Atiku, who he described as a man who would emancipate Nigeria from poverty.
 For the spokesperson for the APC presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Mr. Olufemi Ibitoye, the administration would deploy the use of effective technology in securing the country, saying that information is key in fighting insecurity. He also said that the party would ensure that the National Assembly amends the Criminal Justice System Act, to tackle cases of injustice  According to Ibitoye, Tinubu is the best candidate for the country, adding that, Nigeria cannot be left to someone who has got no experience at the high level. “Tinubu is someone who will get the job done. He has done it before, and he will do it again. He is the architect of modern Lagos. He will build the economic bridge of Nigeria,” he said. LP representative, Mr. Ogbeide Ifaluyi-Isibor, said failure of leadership was the cause of insecurity in the country, saying that a sustainable way of fighting insecurity was ending poverty. “Peter Obi will bring fair leadership where everybody will feel loved. This is what is needed to solve insecurity. Our candidate, Obi, will ensure that the youths are employed which will reduce the high rate of poverty,” he said. He also noted that the Nigeria Police Force was the most underpaid security agency in the country, insisting that the LP would work towards better remuneration for the police. Ifaluyi-Isibor furthered that Nigeria’s inability, as a nation, to elect and select good leaders that understand the problems and had solutions, has been the country’s greatest dilemma. Earlier, Patron of Atiku Youth World Outreach, Maryam Atiku, said the debate was organised to bring youths from the different parties to exchange ideas towards a better future for Nigeria. “This is the first time such a forum is organised, where young persons come together to say no to violence by the political parties. That what the country needs is peace.” Also speaking, the Director-General, Media and Strategic Planning of the Outreach, Mr. Freedom Atsepoyi, said the aim of the outreach was to chart a new course for Nigerian politics. Atsepoyi said: “We are here as youths to show love among the various parties’ supporters, and to say that ‘election is not war.” 