COSEYL hails group over peace summit A faction of Ohanaeze Ndigbo has appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) not to succumb to antics of some members of the political class, who are allegedly plotting to subvert the choice of Nigerians during Saturday’s polls. The group warned that on no account should anybody deny the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi, his right if elected, noting that attempts to subvert the will of Nigerians would spell doom for the country. The Secretary General of the this faction of the apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Okechukwu Isiguzoro, who said this in a statement, yesterday, appealed to Northerners to join hands with other regions in voting Obi. He noted that Obi’s presidency would end corruption, executive stealing and insecurity ravaging the nation. Isiguzoro urged Nigerians to vote and protect their votes. He said: “This is a battle for the soul of Nigeria, and President Buhari and INEC must not succumb to the pressure of corrupt political elite, who are uniting across party lines to fight for their political survival. “Nobody should deny Obi the presidency if he wins, because attempts to subvert the will of Nigerians will spell doom for the country.” “We, therefore, appeal to Nigerians to unite for greater future of the country by voting for Obi on Saturday,” he added. MEANWHILE, the Coalition of South East Youth Leaders, (COSEYL) has lauded the Chairman of Ohanaeze Elders Council, Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, for planning to convey a peace summit ahead of Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly elections. In a statement issued, yesterday, by President General of the coalition, Goodluck Ibem, COSEYL commended efforts of Ohanaeze to secure the release of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, from custody of the Department of State Services (DSS). The group observed that the move for a peace summit in the region is timely, noting that insecurity has taken over “our land.” Ibem said: “Ndigbo is known for peace, togetherness and industrialisation, and those attributes are gradually eluding us as a people. “We commend the great move by Ohanaeze Ndigbo Elders Council, led by Iwuanyanwu, and we urge all and sundry to lend their support to this all-important peace move.” South East governors should pressure the president to release Kanu unconditionally as ordered by the Federal Court of Appeal.” 