Mrs. Khairat Animashaun-Ajiboye is the deputy national publicity secretary of the Diaspora members of APC, USA chapter working for the success of the presidential candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu and his running mate, Kashim Shettima in the next general elections. She spoke with SEYE OLUMIDE  (Southwest Bureau Chief) on why some elements are working against the party and how it would retain power. With the intrigues that have unfolded in recent time within the All Progressives Congress (APC) and in the country, do you see Bola Tinubu defeating Atiku Abubakar and Peter Obi in the next election?
I am positive that Tinubu will win the contest anytime. The reason for this is that he has built bridges across the nation. He is also a visionary leader, who knows what he wants and how to go after it. That is the kind of courageous leader we need to surmount some of the problems we have in this country. The poverty threshold is so high that we need a kind-hearted humanitarian that can easily placate Nigerians with the necessary policies that will give our people human dignity. If we leave the game to fair play, which is what it should be, the Jagaban of Borgu and APC will win the votes! The thought of our party candidate winning this election is causing nightmares for the opposition, which explains why they took advantage of staging Mr. President to approve their plans and to make our people most vulnerable, not allowing them access to cash to feed themselves and their families nor allow them access to fuel to move from a place to the other and to find food. 
   
Our economy is such that the majority of our people must earn daily to take care of themselves. This unfortunate incident that caused our people a well-intentioned pain by the perpetrators is inexcusable. For all it’s worth, APC will emerge and God’s will shall come to pass. What can Tinubu do to secure the confidence of Southwest voters, especially Afenifere that has since endorsed the Labour Party candidate?
Afenifere or whoever endorsed Obi in Yoruba land means nothing at this time. I have said that the intricacies of this election is very delicate to our collective essence of ownership. The players have had their fill and opportunities in the past and right before they emerged as their political party’s candidates.  There is the fear that the northerners are deceiving Tinubu and that they may likely support Atiku in the end? What are your views?
That fear is becoming more poignant and disheartening. The poverty that encapsulates our people sweeps across the length and breadth of Nigeria. From North to South to East and to the West, with no respect to the language anyone speaks, Nigerians are quaking for good leaders, a retinue of them, as led by a visionary political leader, called the president by our constitution. Nigeria has been working hard not to break into parts. Some powerful people keep holding firmly, albeit behind the scenes, to the heart of our country not just for the riches and the power, but for other reasons. The will of over 200 million people will prevail. We will follow through the electoral umpire’s guidelines and get out the votes. We are hopeful that the elections will not be stolen for the sake of democracy, the rule of law, and the protection of our common identity as Nigerians. How is your group coordinating Diaspora support for Tinubu and in what major areas would APC feel your impact in the next election?
My groups, The Asiwaju Movement, Jagaban Campaign Force, The Diaspora Committee for Asiwaju/Shetima Campaign and many more, including our party, APC-USA chapter, where I am the deputy national publicity secretary under the Chairmanship of Professor Adesegun Labinjo, have been campaigning both on social media and especially across Nigeria, to drive home our tenacious believe that Tinubu and Shetima, will improve the lives, property and prosperity of Nigerians. I have been working hard to empower people in my communities through advocacy, giving, increasing hope, education and networking across platforms, drumming up support for our party candidates all over the country, including Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos and our top of the ballot Tinubu and Shetima. I have traveled across continents to assist the vulnerable and reflect the good to the best of my ability. Nigerians deserve a breather that will usher in greatness. Some Nigerians are skeptical that the next election can make or mar the country, looking at the ethnic coloration surrounding its process. What’s your response to this? 
The fear of deep-seated devious plans that may have a long lasting effect on our Nigeria due to the shortsighted selfish, greedy and power mongering establishments under whatever guise is dangerous for our nation and the world at large. Nigerians should become more vigilant than they have ever been during this election. Our intrinsic cultural values for peace, camaraderie, basic comfort and contentment and the need for progressive development that will get our youths become employable; our children provided with adequate learning skills; our parents getting rest of mind and better sense of good health; our communities booming again with community responsibility should come alive in the protection of their votes. We have to play our part before we pull God into this conversation, though God is fully aware of the type of people we are and the nation we truly deserve. 