Tedbree, a dynamic and innovative software and digital marketing company, has won the Silver Award in Business Innovation Category from the SME Business Awards. The award recognises the company’s unwavering commitment to pushing the boundaries of innovation and driving growth in the industry. The SME Business Awards is a prestigious event that celebrates the achievements of small and medium-sized enterprises across various industries. The event, featuring 20 award categories, provides a platform for SMEs to showcase their innovations, growth strategies, and contributions to the wider business community. According to the organisers, EventsandPR, the Business Innovation category, in particular, is a highly coveted award that recognises companies that have developed innovative products, services, or processes that have significantly impacted their industry and businesses. “We are thrilled to have won the Silver Award for Business Innovation at the SME Business Awards Event,” said Tedbree’s CEO, Tommie Edwards. She further stated, “Our focus on innovation has been a key driver of our success, and this award is a testament to our team’s hard work and dedication. We are proud to be recognised as a leader in our industry and will continue to drive innovation and growth.” Using its project delivery platform, TedbreeHub, Tedbree matches world-class talent teams with businesses through its unique scoring algorithm. The award win is a significant milestone for Tedbree and highlights the company’s commitment to driving growth and innovation in the tech industry. The company’s innovative approach and focus on customer satisfaction have helped it to grow rapidly and establish a strong reputation. Reputable brands in the Uk, such as Zipcar, a headline partner, and The CFO Centre UK and Antonio Falco, as gold partners, proudly sponsored the award ceremony. Other partners include Ashley Riley’s Communication, Mental health at work, and BPT Web Wellness. Tedbree is a tech startup specialising in developing innovative software and digital solutions to empower forward-thinking businesses. While creating innovative products that transform businesses, Tedbree builds a safe space for exceptional talents to learn, collaborate, and deliver global value to forward-thinking companies. 