Mob behind torching of police station, says Army Normalcy, yesterday, returned to Ogijo and Odogunyan communities, Ikorodu, after the killing of a soldier by a police corporal. The Guardian gathered that the soldier was stabbed to death by a police corporal at Odogunyan Bus Stop during a fight. Although the cause of the fight was not known, it was learnt that the Corporal attached to the Police Mobile Force, fatally stabbed the soldier who was confirmed dead at a nearby hospital. Immediately the incident took place, the policeman was apprehended by onlookers and was beaten to stupor before the soldiers whisked him away to the barrack. However, angry soldiers from the Army’s 174 Battalion in Ikorodu on Wednesday carried out a reprisal attack on the Ogijo police station, to protest the killing of their colleague. The soldiers allegedly set the station on fire and attempted to torch Sagamu Road Division of the Lagos Police Command, but were ordered from above to retreat. Sources said the incident caused panic among residents, who took to social media to raise alarm. Spokesperson for Ogun State Police Command, Abimbola Oyeyemi , disclosed that patrol vehicles and armoured personnel carriers were set ablaze during the attack. Reacting to the incident, the 81 Division of the Nigerian Army said it was the crowd that attacked the police station, while explaining that the deceased soldier had confronted the policeman who was not properly dressed and was standing beside an OPs MESA patrol vehicle. Acting Deputy Director Army Public Relations 81 Division, Lieutenant Colonel Olabisi Ayeni, in a statement, yesterday, said: “The victim confronted the suspect who was not properly dressed and standing very close to the Patrol Vehicle of Operation MESA to confirm his identity. This led to an argument and subsequently, the unfortunate incident.
“The soldier was immediately rushed to Lagos State Polytechnic Hospital, Odogunyan, for medical attention, but he was declared dead on arrival at the hospital.
“The remains of the soldier have been moved to 174 Battalion Medical Centre in Ikorodu.The suspect has also since been arrested and kept in a military custody for his safety and subsequent handover to Nigeria Police for prosecution.
“The mob who witnessed the unfortunate incident took advantage of this and attacked the police station in the community.
“Troops have been deployed around the vicinity of all police stations in Ikorodu general area to prevent breakdown of law and order.
“The situation is however under control as normalcy has returned to the community.” 