Luwoye warns against vote buying
The All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate for Ogun Central Senatorial district, Shuaib Salisu, has stated that the robust adoption of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) in Nigeria will inspire real transparency in government. Salisu stated this at the engagement session with candidates for Senatorial, House of Representatives and House of Assembly from Ogun Central Senatorial district. He noted that although there could be many challenges in adopting technology in Nigeria, however, if IT were properly utilised, it would spur many things in the society and inspire new transparent governance mechanisms. On his part, President of Egba Economic Summit, Shina Luwoye stated that the summit seeks to enlighten the people and orientate them from tokenism and monetary demands which largely shortchanges everybody. “We are sophisticated people who should be more concerned about benefits for society and the greatest number of citizens than ourselves. “Looking forward, we want to charge whoever wins amongst you (candidates) to ensure that the gap between elected lawmakers and their constituents is effectively bridged this time around at the 10th assembly. “This can be done by having periodic meetings that will update citizens of proceedings with a view to get their buy-in and concurrence on issues. We should raise the bar of governance by asking for life enhancement projects that will catalyze speedy development in the country and Egbaland. He urged the people not to sell their votes but vote for candidates of proven integrity and experience. “This is the Egba standard, and we should not compromise this. Without doubt, the role of proposing legislation, drafting or amending laws for good governance and oversight of budgets of all the tiers of government cannot and should not be treated with levity, hence this forum.” Amongst those at the summit were Labour Party senatorial candidate, Abayomi Collins, APC House of Reps candidate, Afolabi Afuape, APC House of Assembly Candidates; Oluwatobi Doregos and Tunde Tella. Candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) were absent at the summit, but the state party chairman, Dr. Sikirulai Ogundele explained the reasons for their absence. 