Gov. Aminu Masari of Katsina State has constituted an 11-member Commission of Inquiry to investigate the recent killing of no fewer than 40 volunteers (Yan-Sakai) by terrorists. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that recently, over 40 volunteers were ambushed and killed by terrorists in Bakori and Kanakara Local Government Areas of the state. The constitution of the commission was disclosed in a statement issued to newsmen on Friday in Katsina by the Director-General, New Media to the Governor, Malam Al-Amin Isa. According to him, The commission was constituted by the governor in the exercise of powers conferred on him by the provision of section 5 (2) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended). It was also done in compliance with Section (2) of the Commission of Inquiry Law CAP 29 Laws of Katsina State of Nigeria 1991 (as amended) and all the powers enabling him in that behalf. Isa said: “He has constituted and appointed a Commission of Inquiry to be known as (The Bakori/Kankara LGAs Banditry Attacks and Killings Judicial Commission of Inquiry), with the terms of reference hereafter stated: “The Commission shall with all convenient speed, inquire into, investigate, and determine the actual cause or causes of the recent banditry killings and attacks in Bakori and Kankara communities. “Inquire into, investigate, and determine the actual lives and properties lost in the ambush and to ascertain the persons directly affected by the incident.” Other terms of references, he mentioned were to identify groups and or individuals directly connected or involved in the disturbance and to ascertain the roles played by such groups or individuals in instigating, aiding, and or abetting the incident. According to him, the commission should also make specific recommendations as to the appropriate action to be taken on those found to be responsible for the disturbances. It will also suggest necessary assistance/aids to be required by the victims of the attack and families of the deceased. Isa added:  “And also, the commission is to make suggestions on lawful approaches to self-defense by citizens. “Make general or specific recommendations on long and short term measures to forestall similar future occurrences of such incidents in the State. “The Commission shall have full powers and authority to hold hearings in public and or incamera and to receive oral or written evidence as the case may be. “The Executive Governor directs that any five members of the Commission, one of whom shall be the Chairman, shall constitute its quorum. “The Commission shall hold its first meeting in Katsina on 13th Day of February 2023 and thereafter at such a place or places and upon such dates as the Chairman may determine.” According to Isa,  Justice A.B Abdullahi, the Judge of Katsina State High Court was appointed as the Chairman of the commission. He pointed out that the commission was to submit its report to the Executive Governor in Katsina within three weeks after the date of inauguration or within such extended period as the Governor allows in writing. 