A vigilante leader and a Fulani community chief in Auchan, Ikara Council of Kaduna State, Babangida Jibrin and Yahaya Alhaji Abubakar, have sued the Inspector General of Police, Kaduna State Commissioner of Police and one Superintendent of Police, Waziri Sada over unlawful detention. The two applicants through their lawyer, Yakubu K. Musa, are asking for compensation before the Kaduna State High Court, to the tune of N10 million, for alleged unlawful detention and incarceration. The Kaduna High Court four, presided over by Justice Isa Aliyu, had in January given an ex-parte order to the three respondents charged the two applicants to court or release them on bail, pending the determination of the application in the motion on notice. However, when the case came up for hearing on Wednesday, counsel to the respondents, Barrister Sirajo told the court that, the two applicants had since been charged to court for alleged conspiracy, kidnapping and culpable homicide, from where they were sent for remand at the Kaduna Correctional Centre. The defendants’ counsel was however unable to give details about the applicants, the date they were charged to court and when they were sent to the Correctional Centre on remand. On the other hand, counsel to the applicants, Barr. Yakubu Musa said, they approached the court to seek justice for the applicants, because their fundamental human rights have been infringed upon. “We are claiming over N10 million because the applicants have been in incarceration since October, 2022. He said: “The defendants’ counsel just informed the court that, the applicants had been charged to court, without showing any proof like the First Information Report (FIR) to show the charges against the applicants.” One of the relatives of the applicants, however, alleged that the said charges of kidnap and culpable homicide against his brothers, were mere attempt to cover-up the unlawful detention of the duo and extortion of their family members to the tune of N1.370, 000 million by the Police through SP Waziri Sada. Yusuf told journalists that the N1.370, 000 million was collected from families of the applicants in three installments by SP Waziri Sada.
The case was however adjourned to March 23, 2023, to allow the defence counsel properly file their response to the applicants’ motion on notice and give room for the counsel to applicants to know the exact location of his clients.