The Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBF) has invited 21 players to the D’Tigers’ camp ahead of the FIBA World Cup qualifiers billed for Luanda, Angola. The list includes 19 home-based players and two foreign-based pros, who are free agents in the U.S. They are expected to report to camp tomorrow in Abuja for preparations and other formalities for the World Cup qualifiers, which holds from February 24 to 26. Rivers Hoopers’ players top the list of invited players. They are Johnson Anaiye, Michael Daramola, Adebayo Oduleye, Vincent Nwaiwu, Chibuzor Njoku and Victor Koko. Kwara Falcons quartet, Tolani Buhari, Kareem Joseph, Victor Ezeh and Dada Samuel, who helped the team to win the NBBF League in November, received their maiden call-ups. Okiki Michael (Gombe Bulls) and Ibe Agu (Nigeria Customs), who were part of the August window in Rwanda, make a return to the national team. Olatunji Graham and Edenchukwu Derrick are the two foreign-based players invited to camp. The team will be coached by the head coach of Rivers Hoopers, Ogoh Odaudu and assisted by Kwara Falcons head coach, Baban Jubril and former Gombe Bulls head coach, Abdulrahman Mohammed. The camp is scheduled to hold from February 12 to 21 at the indoor sports hall of the MKO Abiola Stadium, Abuja. With five slots up for grabs from the African qualifiers to the 2023 FIBA World Cup, Nigeria will play against Cote d’Ivoire, Guinea and Angola. The list of players has Johnson Anaiye (Hoopers), Tolani Buhari (Falcons), Okiki Michael (Bulls), Kareem Joseph (Falcons), Michael Daramola (Hoopers), Odufuwa Kanyinsola (Bulls), Olatunji Graham (USA/ Free agent), Wisdom Anyoaha (Bulls), Abdulwahab Yakubu (Bulls), Ibe Agu (Customs) and Victor Ezeh (Falcons). Others include Adebayo Oduleye (Hoopers), Abah Patrick (Benue Braves), Edenchukwu Derrick (USA/ Free Agent), Nnoruka Francis (Pillars), Vincent Nwaiwu (Hoopers), Dada Samuel (Falcons), Chinedu Chimbou (Pillars), Chibuzor Njoku, (Hoopers), Israel Otobo (Customs) and Victor Koko (Hoopers).