The Special Adviser on Media to the former Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Bode George, Olusegun Edwards, has described the call by former Spokesman to presidential candidate of PDP, Atiku Abubakar, Segun Sowunmi for the arrest of George as a sign of frustration and disillusionment over his loss, in his bid to become the governorship candidate of PDP in Ogun State.
  
Reacting to what he described as an unwarranted attack on George by Sowunmi, he said Sowunmi is parochial to have made such a statement against Chief George.
He said: “He (Sowunmi) is suffering from the disillusionment of his loss of PDP’s governorship ticket in Ogun State through the ballot box and the court process he instituted against the party flag bearer Chief Ladi Adebutu, who has been recognised as the undisputed candidate of PDP by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).” Edwards advised Sowunmi to direct his frustration to his alleged traducers, rather than look for a ‘Scapegoat’ or try to use George’s revered name as a springboard, to gain the attention of the party’s top echelon.
   
He said George’s call for justice and fairness in the PDP and Sowunmi’s travails in Ogun State couldn’t be equated, to warrant a call for the arrest of the former Deputy National Chairman.
  
Edwards urged Sowunmi to look for other ways to please Atiku, the national chairman of the party, Iyorchia Ayu, and the Director-General of the PDP, if he nursed the desire to do so. “It is the height of unpardonable disrespect for Sowunmi to raise his voice against a respectable Yoruba elder statesman in the caliber of Chief George. It is disdainful for him to be disrespectful to the man old enough to be his father, a respectable figure, who his elders won’t dare talk to disrespectfully.” According to Edwards, Sowunmi carries a morale burden as stated by the governorship candidate of the PDP in Ogun State, Ladi Adebutu, who condemned Sowunmi’s continual action of parading himself as a gubernatorial candidate of the party when he did not take part in the party’s primary.
He said by Adebutu’s position, “Sowunmi is misleading the public by claiming to have won the party’s primary.”