The All Progressives Congress (APC) National Youth Leader, Dayo Israel, yesterday, concluded his tour to the North Central region after his visits to Taraba, Benue and Niger States as part of his nationwide youth mobilisation for the presidential candidate of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and other candidates.
   
Israel, who inaugurated the states’ division of the Jagaban Foot soldiers Movement alongside its various directorates, urged them to effectively communicate the party’s goodwill and readiness to confront peculiar challenges affecting growth and development in the state.
   
He tasked them to make good use of tools provided to them such as the Canvasser’s Record Sheet to enable the Youth Wing run a data-driven campaign, especially with last-mile, get-out-the-votes efforts, it plans to deploy to ensure that the party harvests the largest number of youth votes in the election. Israel also played host to a town hall meeting with various interest and support groups during which he disclosed the plans of Tinubu to bring an end to the perennial conflict and security challenges affecting peace and commerce in the state.
   
He said: “Asiwaju has perfected plans to provide the required support to farmers in Benue State to cultivate, monitor, harvest and preserve their goods. He will also ensure the availability of ready markets and easy access to the markets through key infrastructural investments. This will enable farmers in Benue to sell their goods when due at a favourable profit margin.
  
“Under Tinubu’s leadership, Benue will live up to its reputation as the food basket of the nation and provide relief to the rest of the country by increasing local food supply and bringing down inflation.”
   
As a mark of appreciation for his visit, Benue residents honoured Israel with a title as the ‘Kuhe Jime U Youths,’ which translates to the backbone of the youths.
Israel also visited Kogi State, where he launched the state’s division of the Jagaban Foot soldiers Movement and offered support, including mobilisation tools, to the party’s youth representatives and the team of mobilisers tasked with ensuring a youth-driven electoral success.
   
After his visit to Kogi State, he proceeded to Niger State, where he hosted a town hall meeting with the entire leadership of the state’s youth wing where he inaugurated the state’s members of the Jagaban Movement and provided assurances of the party’s determination to reward its loyal stewards.
   
He urged them to sustain and expedite the wheels of progress in the state by preserving its alliance with the centre with the election of Tinubu and Umar Bago as president and governor respectively.
   
Israel also paid homage to the Emir of Agaei who commended his valiant contributions to youth empowerment and inclusion in leadership, and honoured him with a title as the ‘Hasken Matasa’, meaning the light of the youths.
  
He earlier visited Kwara, Nasarawa, and Plateau States to deliver the message of Tinubu’s Renewed Hope to Nigerians in the cities and hinterlands.