The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Gombe State, yesterday, abstained from signing a peace accord organised by Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) at the banquet hall of International Hotel, Gombe. While Governor Mohammad Yahaya joined other candidates of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to sign the accord, designed to ensure peaceful elections in the state, the PDP governorship candidate, Alhaji Jibrin Barde, and other candidates of the party were absent. The PDP alleged security threats, hounding of its members by the APC, and neglect by the police, a claim, which Commissioner of Police, Oqua Etim, described as baseless. The accord was signed by 13 of the 14 political parties. Fielding questions from newsmen, PDP chairman, Maj. Gen. Amnon Kwaskebe (rtd), accused the police of bias in the ongoing political transition. He said the party made several complaints of intimidations by the APC-led government to the police “None of our complaints were addressed, in spite of glaring life-threatening moves by some politicians,” he noted. Also, the guber candidate of New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP), Khamisu Mailantarki, told journalists that buying of Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) was ongoing in the state. But the state Resident Electoral Commissioner, Alhaji Umar Ibrahim, expressed readiness to hold a free and fair exercise and allayed the fear of the NNPP: “There’s no logical need for anyone to buy and acquire PVCs. There won’t be accreditation of such, and it would be meaningless,” he said. Meanwhile, Yahaya assured citizens of a hitch-free election, pleading with politicians and their supporters to play according to the rules. Ibrahim, while assuring all contestants of a fair exercise, described a peaceful environment as the most essential requirement of democratic transition. He added: “Voters will not turn out en masse to exercise their franchise in an atmosphere of unrest, intimidation and harassment. Election is a right, and no registered voter should be denied that right by any means.” “It is our dear state and nation that we seek to protect and develop. Therefore, it’s very important that we commit to violent-free campaigns in the coming days and peaceful conduct during and after the elections.” 