Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has charged members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to work harder for landslide victory in the March 11 gubernatorial and House of Assembly elections. Abiodun gave this charge, yesterday, while fielding questions from newsmen after a meeting with winners of the National Assembly election at his Iperu-Remo residence. He said though the party had recorded an impressive victory, it was time to embrace those from other parties, who did not win, to join in building the state. The governor explained that the meeting was called to review the February 25 elections and strategise on how to go about for the March 11 elections. Abiodun added: “There is still a lot of work to be done. Let us go and market ourselves for other victories. As we celebrate this presidential election, let us prepare for the gubernatorial and House of Assembly elections, so we can record a massive victory.” The governor, who attributed the party’s victory to God, said APC presented a dream team across the length and breadth of the state, recalling that the last time such happened was 20 years ago. He, however, wondered why some people protested and called for the cancellation of the presidential election, saying despite the APC losing Lagos, its stronghold, members of the party did not protest, as the president would not be for only Lagos, but the whole nation. Senator-elect for Ogun Central Senatorial District, Shuab Salisu, appreciated the governor for the support given to him, pledging to give the state quality representative at the green chambers. Salisu, who recalled that he had attempted four times to go to the National Assembly, but did not succeed, attributed his success at the poll to God as well as support from Abiodun and members of the party, assuring that their voices would be heard at the National Assembly. Also speaking, the senator-elect for Ogun West Senatorial District, Sen. Solomon Adeola, noted that though there was tension before the election, God gave him victory. 