The leader of the African Union (AU) Election Observer Mission and former President, of the Republic of Kenya, Uhuru Kenyatta has called on Nigerians to remain faithful to the democratic principle by ensuring that the Saturday Presidential election is free, fair and credible. Kenyatta gave the advice during his visit to the Nigerian Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama in Abuja. Describing Nigeria as a country in the eyes of Africa and the world, he stated that their mission was to see Nigeria conduct a peaceful election. “We are here as you have correctly stated, to work together with you, we are here as members of the African Union observer team for the upcoming presidential, Governorship and National Assembly elections. We are here as brothers and sisters from African Continent to affirm Nigeria’s commitment as the largest democracy on the African Continent, and to affirm your commitment to democracy, to the rule of law and to active democratic practices that allow the people at intervening periods to be able to elect for themselves, the leaders of their choice”, Kenyatta said. Adding: “Just to say one thing which I have noted, that is President Mohammadu Buhari’s personal commitment towards the free, fair and transparent election. This is something he has been talking about at various intervals, many not actually thinking he would actually see it through. But we are here today and seeing that he has lived true to his word. “We are here to see that those words turn into reality in the next few days. We are here to work together with our brothers and sisters of Nigeria, as they exercise that fundamental right, which is the democratic right to choose freely, the leaders without hindrance, and without interference. There are many challenges and we all know that. “And those challenges are not peculiar to Nigeria. There are challenges that for one reason or another, affect various parts of the world and not just Africa. You have seen similar challenges in the UK and even in established democracies like the United States. So, we must recognize that there will be challenges. “But at the end of the day, what we want is that the eventual outcome of these elections reflects the will of the people of this great country of Nigeria. We are here to work together with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). “We are here to see how we can be of assistance, to ensure that the processes are clear and aboveboard. We are here to encourage our brothers and sisters in Nigeria, to remember that elections are just part of a process.” Kenyatta warned that elections should not be considered the beginning and the end, stressing that their mission was to encourage people to accept results and move on and build a greater and better Nigeria together. In his remarks, Minister Onyeama commended the team, particularly the leader for the mission and confidence in Nigeria, stressing that he respected the principles of democracy and practised them. “So, thank you very much for being a great role model for Africa and for our people. “And thank you very much indeed again on behalf of Nigeria for accepting to come to help us strengthen democracy.”