Download logo Her Majesty Queen ‘Masenate Mohato Seeiso presented CHAL hospitals and LANFOD with medical and disability equipment at the event held at Royal Palace in Maseru on Thursday.  The medical equipment was given by Queen’s National Trust Fund with the aim to address some of the healthcare challenges of the person living with disabilities. She thanked donors for the gesture, saying it will go a long way in addressing the needs of hospitals and those of the disabled. She further pleaded with the recipients to take care of the equipment as they are proud that they have contributed to enhancing the health care of Basotho. She also noted that in 2020 the Queens National Trust Fund (QNTF) awarded some hospitals oxygen concentrators, and masks have also been given out to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. Her Majesty Queen noted that they partnered with other donors such as Lesotho Millennium Development Agency, Maloti Rotary Club, Metropolitan and others to ensure that hospitals are assisted with resources as to enhance quality health services in the country. Speaking at the event, Minister of Gender, Youth, Sports, Culture and Social Development, Mr. Pitso Lesaoana thanked the Queens National Trust Fund/OBE Lesotho who found it imperative to lend a helping hand to the vulnerable part of the clientele they serve. Mr. Lesaoana said this will change the lives of people who will receive them as they will be able to participate effectively in social activities. The Minister said the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) indicates that to enable persons with disabilities to live independently and participate fully in all aspects of life, states that parties shall take appropriate measures to ensure the person with disabilities access equal basis with others to the physical environment, transportation and information. Mr. Lesaoana said section 42 of the Disability Equity Act advocates for the recognition of persons with a disability regarding access to facilities, saying the Department of Social Development fully aligns itself with that notion as they receive the disability equipment. He further mentions that they are all disabled at some point in their lives, adding that a child with a broken leg, a parent with a pram and an elderly are all disabled in one way or another and those who remain healthy are and able-bodied all their lives are few. He expressed his gratitude when receiving this noble gift of disability equipment which is donated by Queen’s National Trust Fund/OBE Lesotho, saying this gift will help the recipients to optimally participate in all social activities as a result of their human rights value of freedom of movement will be restored. On behalf of donors, the Managing Director of Metropolitan Lesotho, Mrs. Mamello Phomane said they believe in quality health care hence the donation. Mrs. Phomane said quality healthcare keeps them awake at night so when they received a request from Queen’s Trust Fund to assist in transporting the medical equipment was not a struggle for them to ensure that the container leaves the United Kingdom and comes to Lesotho so that Basotho receive that medical equipment. On the same note, on behalf of the recipients, Mr. Tsepo Mpholo said they are humbled by this gesture, noting that this will help people with disability to over their daily challenges. Mr. Mpholo said the equipment will assist their hospitals to deliver good medical service to Basotho also ensuring that the health care of Basotho is enhanced. The equipment comprised surgical scrubs and gowns, incontinence pads, wheelchairs, and crutches amongst others. Beneficiaries included Makoanyane Military Hospital, LANFOD as well as seven CHAL hospitals which include Maluti Adventist, St. Joseph’s, Scott, St. James, Seboche, Tebellong and Paray. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Government of Lesotho.