Court to arraign Ondo Speaker, two others for alleged fraud
Speaker, Osun State House of Assembly, Timothy Owoeye, escaped assassination, yesterday after some gunmen reportedly opened fire on his private residence. The Speaker’s media aide, Kunle Alabi, in a statement made available to The Guardian, disclosed that the gunmen were suspected to be political thugs. According to him, Department of State Services (DSS) and police officers repelled the assailants who arrived the premises of the Speaker about 2.00a.m. shooting sporadically at the building. The statement noted that the Speaker and Ijesa South All Progressives Congress (APC) stakeholders, during a press conference in Ilesa, said the attack was also extended to businesses of the lawmaker representing Ilesa West State constituency, Wale Adedoyin; and former Chairman of Ilesa West Central Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Folarin Fafowora. Owoeye stressed that about five members of APC had been killed in gruesome manner across Eti Oni in Atakumosa East, Oke Aga and Ilesa, notable among them the former Secretary of Atakumosa East LCDA. He added: “The recent happening in Osun is becoming worrisome and needs proper attention from every well-meaning citizens. I, therefore, call on the police to investigate the assassination attempt on my life, the gruesome murder of Alaro and others with a view to ensuring that those involved are brought to justice. An Akure High Court, yesterday, ruled that the Speaker of Ondo State House of Assembly, Bamidele Oleyeloogun, and two others will stand trial for alleged misappropriation of funds belonging to the Assembly. The lawmakers and one civil servant are to be arraigned before Justice Adegboyega Adebusoye on April 24 and 25 for alleged fraud, in response to the dismissal of a preliminary objection filed against their trial by the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC). The EFCC had sued the Speaker; a lawmaker, Felemu-Gudu Bankole and a civil servant, Segun Oyadeyi Bankole to court for alleged misappropriation of N2.4 naira belonging to the Assembly. The fund was meant for a seminar, which the lawmakers and the civil servant were meant to attend. However, when the case came up for hearing, the lawmakers said the EFCC lacked the power to prosecute cases affecting the finances and assets of the state, as there was already a law enacted by the Assembly to tackle corruption allegations in the state. The defendants, in a preliminary objection, asked the court to decline jurisdiction and strike out the charges against them because the EFCC has no right to prosecute them over assets belonged to the state. Emodamori said the EFCC has no right to prosecute the defendants for alleged corruption in view of the State Public Complaint Financial Crimes and Anti-Corruption Commission Law signed by Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu in January 2022. However, EFCC counsel, Fredrick Dibang, argued that the court has jurisdiction because the state’s law enacted by the House of Assembly is contrary to the acts of the National Assembly that established EFCC, noting that once there is conflict between the law of a state and that of the federation, the former is suspended. In his ruling, Justice Adebusoye put the state’s law in abeyance and held that the EFCC has power to investigate and prosecute the lawmakers for the alleged fraud, which they were charged with. 