The State Commandant, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Lagos State Command, Commandant of Corps Usman Ishaq Alfadarai, has assured the fourth estate of the realm, of his cooperation and the continuous enhancement of the good working relationship already established between the Corps and the media in Lagos State as well as across the federation. He charged personnel to protect the rights of voters, and cooperate with all stakeholders involved in the conduct of the electioneering process in order to achieve greater peace in the state during and after elections. The State Commandant, further said that a continuous good working relationship, with the media, is even more needed, at this critical time when the nation is conducting general elections. The Corps sees the media as partners in progress and not the other way around and will do everything within the confines of the law to maintain that symbiotic relationship, without prejudice to any media organizations, outlets or platforms. He further seized the opportunity, to commend the media for their support, so far, since his resumption in the state and asked them to continue to maintain their professional ethics, and principles in reporting news about the activities of the Corps in the state. The State Commandant directed patrol teams to calm situations in various places and also visited, over forty polling units at least in about 10 Local Government Areas of the state to deescalate reported situations of a few pockets of violence and rumours of violence, during the exercise yesterday, around Ikeja, Agege, Alimosho, Oshodi, Aguda, Ikate, Surulere and Oshodi, before voting was concluded, just to mention a few.
  Alfadarai further deployed special patrol teams attached to cover all the various twenty  Local Councils and thirty-seven Local Council Development Areas, with the focus to abort any form of violence and breakdown of law and order during and after the elections in the state. Having deployed a total number of three thousand six hundred and forty ( 3,640 ) officers and men to the various strategic fields; such as the offices of the Independent National Electoral Commission ( INEC ), collation centres various polling units, locations and points across the state, CC Usman Alfadarai, said that we must do more as security agencies to achieve the greater success of the exercise and ensure the maintenance of peace, law and order in the state. The above aforementioned tactical patrol teams of personnel fully dressed in the NSCDC uniforms, were being drawn, from various departments and units, such as; Operation, Anti-Vandal, Armed Squad, CNAI, Chemical Biological Radiological Nuclear and Explosives ( CBRNE ) Unit, Quick Intervention Squad ( QIS ), Agro – Rangers, Crisis and Disaster Management, Counter – Terrorism, Peace and Conflict Management etcetera. The State Commandant also read the riot act to the tactical patrol teams and charged them with professional conduct, respect for media men and women, and protection of fundamental human rights of citizens, while discharging their duties across the different LGAs of the state. “It is pertinent to state that the Command also received a series of calls, short messages and online chats, from members of the public, who assisted our situation room, with credible, helpful and timely information that later enhanced the performance and response mechanisms of the Command. “While appreciating the members of the public for their high level of patriotism and trust in the Corps’ ability to deliver on its mandates, we sincerely ask them to maintain the channels of communication earlier opened to the public, through the public relations unit and the crisis and disaster management department of the Command. The social media handles of the Command, Area Commands, Divisions and outposts are also readily prepared to receive urgent information that requires quick response and intervention from the Command. “We shall remain apolitical but remain on guard, during the entire process, from accreditation to voting, collation of results and post-election security, Alfadarai said.