Corps Members have been advised to settle down and contribute meaningfully to the development of their host communities. The Director General of the National Youth Service Corps, Brigadier General Yusha’u Dogara Ahmed gave the advice Tuesday while declaring the 2023 Batch ‘A’ Stream One Orientation Course closed at Niger State Orientation Camp in Paiko. He said their membership in the Scheme does not confer any immunity on them from the legal consequences of any wrongdoing. He urged all Corps Members to avoid meddling in the local politics of their host communities, but rather integrate with them and respect their cultures. General Ahmed however encouraged them to build on the skills acquired during the entrepreneurship development training in camp, and participate in the post-camp training in order to become self-reliant. “On our part, we will continue to liaise with financial institutions and other stakeholders with a view to providing start-up loans to enable you to actualize your business dreams. As you begin the next phase of the service, l urge you to sustain the spirit of patriotism, hard work and resilience, which you imbibed during the Orientation Course. You should avoid acts that can endanger your lives such as staying out late, attending night parties, visiting dangerous places and acceptance of car rides and gifts from strangers”, he said. The Director General also advised the Corps Members to avoid acts that can portray the Scheme in a bad light, such as drug abuse and trafficking, cybercrime, advanced-free fraud and spreading of fake news. He appealed to them to serve as good ambassadors of the NYSC as well as their families and respective institutions. Speaking further, General Ahmed said they should use the social media for self-improvement as well as promotion of unity, peace and national development. He appealed to all Corps Employers to make necessary provisions for the welfare of Corps Members posted to them and mentor them to develop their potential. Ahmed warned the Corps Members against unauthorized journeys and boarding vehicles by the roadsides adding that; “travelling at night will not only increase the risk of an accident but also make rescue difficult”. He urged them to “cut their trips from six o’clock in the evening and pass the night at NYSC Lodges, military barracks and other locations officially designated as safe. You should board vehicles only at approved motor parks so as to avoid falling into the hands of criminals”. NYSC Niger State Coordinator Mr Hassan Taura in his welcome remarks attributed the successful conduct of the three weeks of Orientation Courses to the teamwork by all camp officials.