Barely two weeks before the presidential election in the country, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), assured the preparedness of the agency to conduct a free and credible election in Kano. INEC declared that over 60 percent of electoral materials both sensitive and non-sensitive already arrived in good condition. Kano resident electoral commissioner, Ambassador Zango Abdul, gave the impression on Monday while receiving the Kano state Civil Society Election Situation Room on a familiarisation visit to INEC headquarters in the state. Ambassador Abdul disclosed that INEC’s planned engagement of 53,000 ad-hoc staff for the conduct of the poll in Kano was optimistic about the efficient and effective functioning of its facilities provided for the exercise. The INEC boss in Kano cited the successes recorded by the commission during the last mock BVAS accreditation exercise, emphasised the readiness of INEC to remain apolitical during the poll. “We did the mock accreditation exercise and the turnout was incredible. The BVAS performed wonderful and we did not encounter any problems even though we are not hundred percent perfect. But I have no doubt election will be successful. “Election is huge logistics in Nigeria and I can confirm to you that we have 70 per cent non-sensitive materials available and 50 percent sensitive materials now on ground. Our BVAS are fantastic. Vote would be counted because INEC is neutral and we have no interest.” Earlier, the Chairman of Kano State Civil Society Organisation Election Situation Room, Comrade Ibrahim Waiya told the INEC boss that Kano election situation room was established to monitor development and aggregate concern for a prompt response from concerned authorities. “We are here on a familiarization visits to INEC Kano, and to hint the commission on the activities and engagement of the CSO-ESR, while seeking collaboration and partnership critical stakeholders including INEC. “During election, the situation room would embark on monitoring development across the 44 local government areas, sharing information and development as far as the progress on the conduct of elections is concern and that will escalate prompt action and intervention on the election day.” 