Anyone familiar with the contemporary Afrobeats scene will recognise the duo of Young Jonn and Olamide, a one-time producer-artiste chemistry that held the street-pop scene spellbound. Now, after a litany of throwback chart-topping collabs such as Bobo, Science Student, Confam Ni, among others, this fearsome duo returns as both singers on a new vibrant Afro-pop bop dubbed, Currency. Currently, the bromance between Young Jonn and Olamide is obvious even to a blind person; the Chocolate city-signee rehashes the soulful vibe of Olamide that has glowed on his previous classics such as Melo Melo, Fucking With The Devil, among others. On Currency, both sonic titans tell their tale of ambition, struggles, perseverance and success; while Young Jonn’s stretchy vocals carry the hook with a soulful mien, while Olamide’s slow and sullen raps brew the record into the soothing elixir that it was produced to be. Following the successful release of his sophomore EP, Love Is Not Enough VOL 2, charting on Nigeria’s official Top 10 charts and peaking at Number 1 on this chart for weeks, Young Jonn’s Currency is a vibrant comeback for the producer-cum-singer. 
YoungJonn ended last year with a positive run of several back-to-back singles, which culminated in Xtra Cool. Born John Saviours Udomboso, Young Jonn honed his career as one of the most prominent Nigerian music producers of the 2010s. Returning as an artiste, in 2018, with the song Oshey, Young Jonn continued remodelling his brand until his debut compilation soundpiece, Love Is Not Enough (LINE Vol 1) pushed him again into the limelight, with hits such as Dada, Normally, among others. He scored his first solo No.1 record with the song, Xtra Cool, on Nigeria’s Top 100 songs maintaining its top position on the charts on all DSPs for several weeks consecutively. Unarguably one of the biggest breakouts in the year 2022 with over 150 Million streams garnered so far, Young Jonn is geared to continuously deliver several exciting music for his listeners and join his peers as one of Afrobeats exports to the world. 