The police command in Kano has ordered the immediate suspension of the presidential campaign grand finale of All Progressives Congress (APC), New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state. The ruling party and two major opposition parties had mobilized members and loyalists to drum up final support for their presidential and national assembly candidates, all of whom were scheduled to hold events Thursday (today) in the city. Worried by the raging political rivalry between the ruling and opposition parties, the police authority summoned the leadership of the three political parties to an emergency meeting Wednesday evening, where they were cautioned of possible security threats and untoward consequences of the multiple rallies potent. A security source revealed that representatives of APC and NNPP objected to security advice, asking the police to grant permission based on the party that sought early permission, The police are prepared to deploy maximum force to resist any disobedience. In a letter by the police, cited by The Guardian, the police said, “You recall that (three) political parties via APC, NNPP, and PDP informed the command of their rallies scheduled for Thursday, February 23, 2023, within Kano metropolis.” “In view of the precarious security situation in the state and the country in general, the commissioner of Police summoned the representatives of the three political parties to an emergency meeting to find a solution to the impasse.” “The statement signed by Deputy Commissioner of Police Mu’azu Mohammed added: “The Commissioner of Police passionately appealed to the consciousness of the representatives that, this is not in their best interest considering the fragile security of the state.” “It is therefore advice that all political parties postpone the planned presidential/national assembly rallies to a later date after the February 25 elections,” DCP Muhammed noted. Meanwhile, the spokesperson of the NNPP gubernatorial candidate in Kano, Sanusi Bature, told The Guardian that the party would comply with security advice to avoid the loss of needless lives and property. Sanusi, however, explained that party loyalists would assemble at the designated location to receive the party’s presidential candidate and usher him to his residence. In a similar vein, APC state secretary Zakari Sarina argued that the government is law-abiding and won’t take any actions that could lead to security threats in the city.