By Imane Charioui, Director of Francophone Africa, WorldRemit AOUNDE, Cameroon, 22 February, 2023,-/African Media Agency (AMA)/- The rapid growth of mobile money technology has disrupted the financial sector in Sub-Saharan Africa, fuelling social-economic transformation in many countries and the growth has provided considerable benefits to citizens looking to access reliable financial services. In fact, Africa accounts for 70% of the world’s $1 trillion USD mobile money value. In 2021, the value of Africa’s mobile money transactions increased 39% to $701.4 billion USD from $495 billion USD in 2020, highlighting the future of banking in the continent as mobile money reduces transaction costs for users and helps households to manage their cash flows more effectively, manage risk and build working capital. In Cameroon, the rise of mobile money has enabled 98% of the population to be covered by a mobile GSM network (2G and above), accelerating financial inclusion and improving the welfare of low-income households. However, criminals have also discovered the opportunity this presents and the National Agency for Information and Communication Technologies (ANTIC) reported that cybercrime caused financial losses of 12.2 billion CFA Francs to the Cameroonian economy in 2021, double the losses reported in 2019. These losses were primarily due to scamming, and phishing, a technique used by fraudsters to obtain personal information to perpetrate identity theft amounted to 6 billion CFA Francs. With these developments, managing security and privacy in a dynamic and vulnerable environment remains crucial. WorldRemit, a leading global payments company, has identified the top four money transfer scams occurring in the industry in 2023 that Cameroonian residents should look out for. The four scams include email scams, such as taxation scams, where scammers impersonate the ATO, and online dating scams, where scammers can play on emotional triggers to get you to send money. In 2021, Interpol’s African Cyberthreat Assessment Report indicated that the highest-reported and most pressing cyber threat in Africa was indeed online scamming. Additionally, online shopping scams, such as overpayment scams, where scammers ask you to ‘refund’ an overpayment before you realise the credit card has been stolen or a payment receipt is fake, and Facebook impersonation scams, including money flipping scams that promise quick cash if you invest. WorldRemit takes online security very seriously and we understand many of the tricks and techniques behind some of the most popular scams. We want to educate Cameroonians on what scams look like so that our customers can understand what to avoid and protect themselves from getting scammed,” said Imane Charioui, Director of Francophone Africa at WorldRemit. “Always double-check who is asking you to send money, and if you are not comfortable with the transaction, don’t pursue it. Also avoid using third-party intermediaries, or agents who offer to make transactions on your behalf, and if you need to transfer money overseas, once you have checked the recipient, use a trusted money transfer service like WorldRemit to ensure that your money does arrive in time.” Imane Charioui shares her top tips to avoid these four popular money transfer scams. Tips for avoiding email scams: Tips to avoid online dating scams: ips for avoiding online shopping scams: Tips for avoiding impersonation scams: Distributed by African Media Agency (AMA) on behalf of WorldRemit. About WorldRemit We’re a leading global payments company and, along with Sendwave, part of Zepz, a group powering two global payments brands. We disrupted an industry previously dominated by offline legacy players by taking international money transfers online – making them safer, faster and lower-cost. We currently send from 50 countries to recipients in 130 countries, operate in more than 5,000 money transfer corridors worldwide and employ over 1,200 people globally. On the sending side WorldRemit is 100% digital (cashless), increasing convenience and enhancing security. For those receiving money, the company offers a wide range of options including bank deposit, cash collection, mobile airtime top-up and mobile money. Backed by Accel, TCV and Leapfrog – WorldRemit’s headquarters are in London, United Kingdom with regional offices around the globe. www.worldremit.com Media Contact WorldRemit Press Office media@worldremit.com The post Four money transfer scams to beware of in Cameroon in 2023 appeared first on African Media Agency.