• Crisis Of Litigations, Court Decisions Fester Leader of Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, Pa Ayo Adebanjo, recently noted that the forthcoming elections in Nigeria should not be seen as an ordinary poll. The respected Yoruba leader urged the electorate to take the ballot seriously because it holds the key to Nigeria’s future.  Dawn of Voter Rebellion
FROM the rally grounds, especially in Akwa Ibom, Delta, Katsina and Ogun states, it became obvious that voters are becoming bolder and more assertive. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has assured that the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) will guide the electoral process.
    
The commission declared that gone are the days when warehoused PVCs are deployed during elections, stressing that empowered by the provisions of the Electoral Act 2022, it was ready to deliver credible elections.
  
Those assurances by INEC might explain the recent show of voter power in Asaba during the PDP presidential campaign stop in the state. Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki had mounted the rostrum to pitch for PDP and its presidential candidate.
     
After informing the attendees that both Delta and Edo people have resolved to support PDP back to the presidency, he asked those present at the rally ground whether they would vote for PDP. ‘Nooo’ was chorused. A similar outward show was demonstrated in Akwa Ibom and Ogun states.
   
At Katsina, which is the home state of President Muhammadu Buhari, the masses also chorused Ba Mayi (We won’t) when the APC presidential campaign addressed a rally in the state. Crisis Of Litigations, Court Decisions
Preparations for the election have been dogged by a crisis of judicial pronouncements. Despite the provisions of the Electoral Act 2022, which stipulates that pre-election litigations should be dispensed with before the polls, many cases continue to await judicial approval.
   
 It could be recalled that in November last year the Federal High Court set up a Special Task Force made up of judges to undertake swift hearing into pre-election petitions. Chief Judge of FHC, Justice John Tsoho, had explained that “the task force became necessary to designate a team of Judges following the large volume of pre-election suits that have flooded the court.”
   
A circular by the court’s Assistant Director of Information, Dr. Catherine Oby Christopher, said: “Judges who are members of the task force will suspend all regular cases in their respective courts, due to the urgency of electoral cases, which are time bound.
   
 “In view of the large volume of pre-election cases filed so far, with the imminent attendant risk of lapsing, it has become necessary to constitute a task force to speedily dispose of the matters, particularly in those Judicial Divisions with a glut of them.”  Threat Of Poll Shift Persists
IT could be against the background of the observations by the Court of Appeal President that Nigerians express concerns about the possibility of the election holding as scheduled.
  
INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, while addressing the Director General of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Brig. General Yushu’a Ahmed dismissed speculations that the general elections will not hold as scheduled.  “We are confident that arising from this meeting, we can assuage the anxiety expressed by some of our service providers. We are determined to make the 2023 general election one of the best organised elections in Nigeria but we cannot do it alone.
“That is why the commission is mobilising every critical national institution for the success of the election. This meeting is part of this effort,” he disclosed.
 
Speaking when he led a delegation to the office of the Central Bank (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emefiele, Prof. Yakubu stressed that “Nigerian election is a huge and complex undertaking which requires the engagement of critical services.” 
 
Doing a brief on specifics, the INEC chairman stated: “In line with the provisions of extant laws and regulations, service providers are generally paid by means of electronic transfer to their accounts. 
   
“There are equally critical areas such as transportation and human support services that have to be immediately remunerated either partially or in full before services are rendered. Emergency situations might arise requiring immediate cash payments, also, some of the critical service providers are unbanked.” 
   
The CBN boss told the INEC chairman that the Federal bank has been a partner in progress with INEC, remarking that the bank “appreciates the fact that INEC supported by the Nigerian populace had the trust and confidence in the ability of the CBN in playing the roles that it had played for you so far, to ensure that elections hold without any hitches.” 