Neutralise two gunmen, recover ammunition 
Kwara State Police Command, yesterday, paraded a 36-year-old medical doctor, Dr. Adio Abbas Adeyemi, for allegedly killing  four persons in the state.
 
One of the victims, who was reportedly missing at ‘F’ Division of the state’s Command, Tanke, Ilorin, was  same young lady killed, dismembered and thrown into the bush at Alapa, in Asa Local Council of the state.
   
Addressing newsmen during the parade of the suspect at the Nigeria Police Headquarters in Ilorin yesterday, the Commissioner of police, Paul Odama, said the suspect would soon appear in court after thorough investigations over the allegations.  “He further confessed to killing of one unknown lady buried inside same General Hospital’s store. Both bodies were exhumed, recovered and deposited at the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital, Ilorin.
 
“The suspect also confessed further to have been lured into organ harvesting by a yet-to-be-identified syndicate.”
  
The police boss added that a discreet investigation is still in progress to unravel other killings perpetrated by the suspect and his syndicate.  IN a related development, on February 17, 2023, at about 2350 hours, Musa Saka ‘m’ and Ridwan Shehu ‘m’ both of Onile-Aro village and Isalu farm settlements escaped and reported at Oke-Ero Police Division that some armed men invaded their farm settlements.
  
Policemen from the Division and a vigilante group in the area were mobilised and stormed the identified farm settlements.  They were greeted on arrival at the scene with hail of bullets from the invaders.
  
The engagement by the police and vigilante group led to the neutralisation of two of the unknown armed men. But one of the vigilante squad sustained gunshot injuries and is presently recuperating.
   
According to the police, two AK-47 rifles with four live rounds of ammunition were recovered, and the bodies of the two unknown gunmen have been deposited in an undisclosed mortuary, while efforts are in top gear to arrest the remaining fleeing suspects. 