Centre seeks monarchs’ support to mop up illegal arms Troops of Operation Hadin Kai (OPHK) in the North East and the Civilian JTF have killed eight suspected Boko Haram terrorists in Mafa Council, Borno State. The ground troops also arrested a suspect on December 26, 2022 as well as recovered four motorcycles and AK-47 rifle. A counter-insurgency expert in the Lake Chad region, Zagazola Makama, disclosed, on Monday, in Maiduguri that neutralisation of the terrorists came after the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt-Gen. Faruk Yahaya, charged the troops to redouble their efforts in smoking them out from Sambisa Forest and Lake Chad region. According to him, the successful operation was coordinated based on credible intelligence at Ngwom community, near Maiduguri.  The information received from the community, however, paid off, he said, as the troops instantly eliminated the fleeing terrorists. He added that the insurgents were those who usually engaged in robbery in Mafa, Jere and Konduga local councils of the state. SIMILARLY, a subgroup of the Kwayam tribe in the state, who were known for spiritual warfare, also killed two Boko Haram suspects. He said the terrorists were killed in a separate ambush with bow and arrows. “The Kwayam local hunters recovered a motorcycle and handed over to the troops at Gongulong, 15 kilometres north of Maiduguri,” he added.
MEANWHILE, the traditional institution in the state has been enjoined to support the advocacy to reduce the circulation of illegal small arms and light weapons in the North East. North East Zonal Coordinator, National Centre for the Control of Small Arms and Light Weapons (NCCSALW), Rear Adm. Abdulrahim Mohammed (rtd), made the appeal, on Monday,when he visited the Shehu of Borno, Alhaji Abubakar Ibn-Garbai El-Kanemi, in his palace in Maiduguri. Muhammed said the centre embarked on national assignment to eradicate illegal acquisition of firearms, which contributed immensely to the security challenges in the country. According to him, the traditional institution is a critical stakeholder in the campaign, as the monarchs are custodians of culture and vanguard of peace and violence-free society. In his remarks, the Shehu commended the Federal Government for establishing the centre in Maiduguri, adding that it would mitigate insecurity, the proliferation of small arms and light weapons in the region. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the centre has recovered more than 3,000 illegal arms in the last 18 months since its take-off in May 2021. 