Adelabu accuses gov of condoning violence The Media Committee of Governor Seyi Makinde Campaign Council has condemned the attack on the governor’s campaign trail in Igangan, Ibarapa North Local Council, noting that suspected thugs of opposition parties perpetrated the violence. It maintained that the attacks were premeditated and orchestrated by some opposition elements, who hired street urchins to waylay the convoy of the governor, to paint him in bad light. The Special Assistant (Print Media) to the Governor, Moses Alao, in a statement on behalf of the committee, described the attacks as unwarranted, warning opposition elements to eschew politics of bitterness and violence. The committee equally condemned the reports by the All Progressives Congress (APC) that men of the Park Management System (PMS) triggered the crisis. “We have read different reports regarding the attacks on the convoy of Governor Makinde by hired thugs of the opposition APC, in collusion with some unscrupulous elements, who tried in vain to disguise as youths of Igangan community. “We condemn the attacks, which were clearly a failed attempt on the lives of the governor and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) senatorial candidate for Oyo South, Chief Olasunkanmi Tegbe,” the statement reads. Advising the perpetrators to have a rethink, the council said Oyo people have made up their minds to move forward to sustainable development under Makinde. “For the umpteenth time, we want to inform the APC bandits that no level of violence or blackmail will stop Makinde’s campaign and his eventual re-election by the people of Oyo,” it added. BUT the governorship candidate of Accord, Chief Bayo Adelabu, had condemned the violence, adding that it becomes more regrettable that the governor, who is the Chief Security Officer of the state, is condoning such wanton and bestial action. While commiserating with the people of Igangan, yesterday, over the violence that occurred in the community on Tuesday, he said the mayhem further underlined the violence that has continued to trail the governor’s electioneering. Violence erupted in the community when Makinde took his campaign to Igangan, Ibarapa. Two people were reportedly killed, while scores were injured. Bayo Adelabu Campaign Organisation (BACO) stated: “Violence has continued to trail Makinde to most of the places he has gone to campaign. This latest attack has further confirmed our fears about the governor’s intention of creating the PMS.” According to BACO, Oyo is gradually being turned into a Gestapo state, reminiscent of Adolf Hitler’s Germany, where citizens are no longer free to express themselves. He said: “Most people complained that during Makinde’s town Hall meeting, no one could ask critical questions for fear of being attacked by thugs. This is how one of the stakeholders at the town hall puts it, ‘If any one comes up with constructive criticism on the governor, thugs will not allow such person to get home alive.” 