• Tasks journalists on professionalism in coverage Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE) has urged Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), security agencies, and other stakeholders not to let the people down. The admonition comes as the country prepares for another democratic transition of government, with Presidential and National Assembly elections scheduled for Saturday, February 25, and Governorship/States Houses of Assembly polls slated for March 11. This was contained in a communique signed by President, Mustapha Isah, and General Secretary, Iyobosa Uwugiaren, at the end of the Guild’s Standing Committee in Abeokuta, Ogun State, at the weekend. The umbrella body of all editors in Nigeria said Nigerians desire that their votes will count and are expectant of free, fair and credible elections, devoid of violence. “We call on INEC to make good its promise of early deployment of electoral materials to polling units on election days and ensure its personnel, in their conduct, do not deviate from provisions of the Electoral Act and other laws guiding the elections. “The NGE notes that all eyes will be on the operation of the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) and urges the electoral body to ensure that the devices are in top shape, to perform optimally and actualise the intended purpose of their introduction during the elections,” the statement said. The editors also called on the electoral body to guarantee the secrecy of ballots, by ensuring that its cubicles are well positioned and voters keep cameras away. The Guild noted the important role of security agencies in achieving free, fair and credible elections, urging them to be unbiased and ensure voters are able to exercise their franchise freely in an atmosphere devoid of intimidation. The Guild also urged the security agencies to be on the lookout for vote buyers, with a view to apprehending and prosecuting offenders. It advised them to provide adequate security for electoral officials and materials. Expressing concern over activities of some political parties, since commencement of ongoing campaigns, the editors advised the parties and their candidates to play by the rules and impress on their supporters the need to avoid violence before, during and after the polls. The NGE said: “We call on politicians to let their party manifestos and campaign promises guide the electorate in making their choices, and avoid inducing voters through vote buying. “The Guild calls on the electorate to come out to perform their civic rights by speaking with their votes on election days and avoid voter apathy.” Observing that the media has a role to play in ensuring free and fair elections, NGE called for professionalism in reportage and proper fact checking before publication of reports. The editors also called on all stakeholders, including Civil Society Organisations (CSOs), local and international election monitors/observers to play their roles within the ambit of the law, ensuring that the nation has yet another successful election and transition. The Guild noted current challenges over the cashless policy and advised the government, especially the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), to address all problems capable of affecting the conduct of the elections.