The United Kingdom’s Minister of State for Development and Africa, Andrew Mitchell, has tasked the Nigerian government, politicians and the entire Nigerian citizens with a free, fair and credible election as the Presidential election holds this Saturday. In a statement issued by the British High Commission in Nigeria, Mitchell stated that Nigeria matters to the UK, and consequently, the country is following the run-up to Presidential, National Assembly and Gubernatorial elections very closely. He said: “Over the last two months, I have met four of the presidential candidates and the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), and emphasized our support for the process and our commitment to a strong relationship between our two countries. The UK government continues to work closely with INEC and our Nigerian civil society partners to provide advisory support on electoral and legal reforms, assist in strengthening democratic institutions, and advocate for the importance of civil society engagement in electoral and democratic processes to help deliver credible elections. “It is vital for Nigeria’s stability and democratic consolidation that the electoral process is free, fair, and credible. I encourage all actors in Nigeria to intervene proactively to calm any tensions and prevent violence in the periods before, during and after the elections.” Adding: “I call on party officials at all levels to respect human rights and electoral laws and institutions and take a firm stand against violence and hate speech. I strongly condemn any actions that undermine the peaceful and transparent conduct of the electoral process. “Where the UK is aware of attempts to subvert democratic processes at the National or State level we are prepared to take action against those who engage in or incite electoral violence and other anti-democratic behaviours. “These actions could include preventing people from obtaining UK visas or imposing sanctions under our human rights sanctions regime. “The UK Government remains committed to supporting credible and inclusive elections, which are fundamental to Nigeria’s continued democratic growth and to the future of regional and global democracy”, the statement read.