The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Ondo State as well as security agencies in the state assured on Tuesday that necessary measures had been put in place towards ensuring a hitch-free process. At a security meeting held at the Police Officers’ Mess, Akure, the Ondo State capital ahead of the Saturday poll, the Commissioner of Police, Oyeyemi Oyediran, disclosed that over 7000 personnel drawn from security agencies in the state will be deployed for the polls. With all heads of security agencies present at the meeting with the Acting Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Oyegoke Oyelana, the police boss warned that anyone plotting to disrupt the poll will be dealt with severely. Oyediran said: “We are assuring the public that we are ready for the success of the forthcoming elections.” Over 7,000 combined security personnel are to cover the election. “I want to inform the public that they should be rest assured that the forthcoming elections will be peaceful, and we are all ready for that purpose. Thuggery, along with other related vices, will not be allowed. “We have DPOs, Area Commanders, and Operation Officers who are in charge of all areas in the state. So we are fully ready, and by the grace of God, this election is going to be a successful one. “We will have free and fair elections; come Saturday, the election is going to be credible. So far, so good. We have not arrested anybody in the state for electoral offenses, and we have been ensuring that two political parties don’t have campaigns on the same day.” On his part, the acting REC, who stated that adequate sensitization had been done on the usage of the Bimodal Voter Authentication System (BVAS), revealed that over 17,000 ad hoc personnel will be on the field for the polls. Oyelana added that the deployment of all personnel that will participate in the election will not be hampered by the fuel and naira shortages. “The commission in Ondo state is deploying 17,562 ad hoc personnel to serve in various capacities as far as the elections are concerned on Saturday.” “As far as the issue of BVAS is concerned, INEC has been sensitizing people on the use of this BVAS in the election. “BVAS is going to be used for accreditation alongside thumbprint and facial recognition, so we don’t have any problems on this.” “INEC does not have any problems; arrangements have been made to make sure that this election goes as scheduled.” “The total polling units in Ondo State are 3,933.” “For the collected PVCs, it is over 1.7 million, and for the uncollected PVCs, it is over 303,000.” Meanwhile, the Comptroller of the Nigeria Immigration Service in the state, Bosede Olufumilayo, stated that in the build-up to the election, four non-Nigerians were arrested with Permanent Voter Cards (PVC) and National Identity Cards. 