• Joyce calls Hearn ‘Pinocchio’ over AJ claim
Anthony Joshua believes he has benefitted from going ‘back to basics’ with new trainer Derrick James, reports www.dazn.com. Joshua has moved onto a new training setup after back-to-back defeats against Oleksandr Usyk and ahead of an April 1 clash with Jermaine Franklin, he is mainly operating from Texas after he had been expected to relocate to the United States ahead of a comeback. The fight with Franklin will be shown live on DAZN, and speaking to the streaming service, he discussed how he has adjusted his preparation. “I don’t see much of Texas to be honest. I’ve liked the United States more and more. I’m not saying I’ll move there but I’ll probably spend more and more time outside of the UK,” he began. “There’s a whole world out there.” Promoter Eddie Hearn has suggested Joshua could now fight three times this year, and the former champion has no problem with that idea. He said: “That’s very easy, but it’s the expectation, because of the situation – look at the undisputed – it’s nice to have a date set so you can work towards what’s next. I think three fights is easy, to be honest. “In terms of rebuild, let (me) have some time to fight without the pressure, but let me not forget this guy, Jermaine Franklin, is working in the trenches. It’s silly of me to come in with that mindset (that I will definitely win.) Discussing his new trainer he added: “Why Derrick? On the search for greatness, thanking God, my direction and hopefully it works out. “It was a natural progression. It’s nice, you know: what do you need to do as a boxer? Skip, shadow box, hit the heavy bags, hit the mitts and spar, but with intention. I was looking for before, let’s strip it back, get it back to the basics. I like that, it’s good. “I feel I have to take Jermaine Franklin more seriously than I do Usyk. I now know better .How I trained, it wasn’t enough. I have to put more pressure on myself. As long as I’m fighting I’ll have self-expectation to get better.” Meanwhile, British heavyweight, Joe Joyce, has disputed promoter, Hearn’s claim that an offer was made to fight Joshua, reports worldboxingnews.net. Reports quoted Hearn as stating Joshua ‘wanted to fight’ Joyce instead of choosing the lighter option of Jermaine Franklin. In response, Joyce sent Hearn a ‘Pinocchio’ emoji as if he knew nothing about the supposed approach. Joyce is set to battle Zhang Zhilei on April 15, two weeks after Joshua returns from two defeats against American Franklin. On paper, Joyce has the more challenging assignment. The WBO number one bids to cement his place as the mandatory challenger. ‘The Juggernaut’ believes AJ is taking little risks as he knows another loss would devastate his five-year DAZN deal. A fight with Tyson Fury was never really on the cards for Joshua despite plenty of fluff in the UK media in late 2022. Speaking to talkSPORT, Joyce got real on Joshua’s choice of test for the spring as he’s demoted to arenas for the first time in six years. “I guess he wants to take the long route back, who shall not be named. I went to the Olympics, and I turned professional at 31. I’ve had to get a move on,” said Joyce. “My team has strategically made the right steps. I’ve boxed all over the world on all the channels. To get to the top, you have to plan out your route. “I’ve delivered in all of my fights. I’m on a mission.” Joyce undoubtedly is after a brilliant stoppage of Joseph Parker, a foe that Joshua had trouble dealing with when they traded blows. However, after his career nosedived on the back of the Andy Ruiz Jr. knockout, Joshua aims to impress a third coach in his last three bouts. “I’m looking forward to stepping back into the ring on April 1 at The O2 in London,” Joshua stated at the press conference for the Franklin non-Pay Per View. “Mentally and physically, I feel ready. I want to put on a show and impress my coach (Derrick James), who has high standards. “Franklin has a good style and a great attitude, which he has shown in recent fights.” On campaigning on off PPV for the first time since before his Dillian Whyte clash in 2015, Joshua added: “This will be my first fight broadcast on DAZN in the UK. “It will be globally available on the platform. I want to thank DAZN for supporting both myself and the sport of boxing as a whole. “I would also like to thank the team at 258 and Matchroom Boxing.” Joshua hopes to avoid looking like an April fool when the first bell goes. 