Information and Culture Minister, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has commended the efforts of the National Population Commission (NPC) for positively rewriting the history of the census in Nigeria through meticulous planning and massive deployment of technology at every stage of the national exercise. While inaugurating the Census Publicity Committee yesterday in Abuja, the minister said, “We are happy to note that the commission is not only making efforts to conduct the 2023 census but also laying a solid foundation for the seamless conduct of future censuses. “The federal government notes with satisfaction and commendation the effort of the commission to positively rewrite the history of the census in Nigeria through meticulous planning and massive deployment of technology at every stage of the national exercise.” The minister added that “the Enumeration Area Demarcation, which involves the division of the entire landmass of Nigeria into small enumeration areas that can be covered by a pair of enumerators, has been carried out meticulously and digitally, and the products generated will be relevant for other planning purposes. “All the buildings and structures in the country have been captured and geo coded”, he added. According to him, the census publicity committee has the Chairman, of the National Population Commission; the Director General, of the National Orientation Agency (NOA); the Director General, of the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA); the Director General, of Federal Radio Corporation (FRCN); Director General, News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) and the Director General, Voice of Nigeria (VON). Others include the President, the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ); the Director-General, of the National Youth Service Corp (NYSC); the President of, the Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE); the President, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC); the Director General, Nigerian Tourism Development Corporation; Executive Director, National Film and Video Censors Board (NFVCB) and Director General, National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC). Others are the President General of, the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA); President of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN); President, of the National Council of Women Society (NCWS); President, the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS); President and the National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN). There are also, President, of the Market Women Association of Nigeria; Representative of Civil Society Groups; Chairman, of the Public Affairs Committee (NPC); Chairman, of the Census Committee (NPC); Deputy Chairman, the Public Affairs Committee (NPC); Chairman, the Census Committee (NPC); Deputy Chairman, Public Affairs Committee; Chief Technical Adviser, (CTA); Director General, NPC; Census Manager, Director, Census (NPC) and Director, Public Affairs Department (NPC) to serve as the secretary. While calling for maximum cooperation with the Commission in its bid to deliver accurate and reliable demographic data for planning purposes, the Information and Culture Minister said the 2023 census itself is a legacy programme of President Muhammadu Buhari.s administration. “As you are aware, Nigeria last held a population census in 2006. That was about 17 years ago – almost an eternity when you consider the importance of population census to national development. It is recommended that a national population census be held every 10 years. “The conduct of the 2023 Census is a top priority for the administration of President Buhari. It was borne out of the desire to bequeath an enduring legacy of evidence-based planning for sustainable development.” Also speaking, the Chairman of, the National Population Commission, Alhaji Nasir Isa Kwarra, expressed delight at the inauguration of the committee, noting that the event marks another milestone in the Commission’s journey towards the successful conduct of the 2023 census that is hoped to generate evidence-based demographic data for development planning purposes. “The overarching vision of the 2023 census is to produce not only accurate, reliable and acceptable census data but also inclusive and user-friendly data that will be used by all segments of the society for development planning and critical programme interventions. “Therefore, as part of this commitment, the commission will deploy full digital technology in the conduct of the Census and it will leave no stone unturned in ensuring that the results of the census are acceptable to Nigerians, and the quality of the data to be generated meets international best standards. “This aspiration has informed the methodology and quality of preparations for the census in the last few years. In all these, the need for Advocacy, Publicity and Public Enlightenment cannot be overemphasized.” According to Isa Kwarra, “given this scenario, information, they say, “rules the world.” As such, targeted advocacy and sustained publicity are no doubt, imperative to the successful conduct of the census exercise. This becomes even more crucial in view of the fact that the census is taking place immediately after the conduct of the 2023 General elections. “Therefore, the mobilization of critical stakeholders to support and take ownership of the process to achieve the desired outcome is imperative and it hinges absolutely on our ability to speak to the people in the language that will galvanize and mobilize them to participate in the 2023 census. “To this end, the commission will be relying on your expertise and structures to drive the message into every home and household to drum up support and participation in the 2023 Population and Housing Census.” Adding: “In order to ensure that members of the committee have a good grasp of the processes and methodology of the census, a workshop will be organized to keep them up-to-date on the preparation for the census. “In addition, the committee should be rest assured of the commission’s full support for it to deliver on this very important national assignment”, Kwarra stated.