Presidential candidate of Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi, has presented the blueprint of the party to the Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Adams. Making the presentation, yesterday, during a courtesy visit to the Omole Phase 2 palace of the Yoruba warlord, the former governor of Anambra State said he had embraced restructuring as a component of his administration, if he wins. “My plans on the economy, tourism, security, agriculture and unity of Nigeria remain pivotal as a better way of salvaging the country from political quagmire.”
Obi spoke prominently for over an hour about the economic potential of the northern and southern Nigeria, insisting that the visit was part of the ongoing consultations of his presidential campaign team.
He submitted that the blueprint of his administration is all-inclusive, with prominent focus on the unity of Nigeria as well as a robust economy. The LP standard-bearer also said the visit was a measure of respect to the stool and understanding of how best to solve Nigeria’s problems with an enduring blueprint.
According to him, prominent leaders like former President, Olusegun Obasanjo; leader of Yoruba socio-political group, Afenifere, Pa Ayo Adebanjo and Chief Edwin Clark would not be supporting his ambition, if it were all about money. His words: “There are others who can give billions to the elders and leaders of our country, but I have no money to give them. I have a strong desire to change the country and make Nigeria work for everybody. We have a project of a Nigeria where everybody is involved in the prospect of a great country.
“I said it here that Nigerians should hold me responsible for Nigeria’s turnaround. We will do things differently as President of this great nation.” Obi also gave insight into how Philippines was liberated. He mentioned Vietnam, Indian and China, who with their huge population, succeeded in ensuring food and human security, assuring that Nigeria could be great with a leader with the people’s interest at heart. “I will make Sambisa Forest an agricultural village, explore the tourism sector and address the spate of insecurity across the country,” he added. In his remarks, Adams said the visit was not an endorsement but a show of respect to the revered stool that had been in existence since 1587. He stated further that that anybody that fails to respect the stool does so at his or her peril, adding: “I appreciate your gesture and respect for the revered stool of the Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland. You gave us a short notice on your visit, but I appreciate the fact that you kept to time. It is a show of your passion and dedication. “Your respect for the Aare Ona Kakanfo stool is a reflection of your understanding of Nigeria’s problems.” 