NerdzFactory in collaboration with Access corporation has awarded winners of the climate change essay competition for schools in Lagos State as part of its sustainability awareness program. The top three essays were awarded at an essay competition award event held on Tuesday at the Ministry of Education Secretariat in Alausa, Lagos. The schools who were awarded were Obele Community Senior High School with the representatives: Eda-Samuel, Asepeolorunim and Olufemi, Lagos Progressive Senior Secondary School with their representative Iroham Victory Chinaza and New Era Senior girls with their representative Chukwu Chioma Rita. In attendance were Dr Adetola Salau, The Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Education, The Director NerdzFactory Foundation, Ade Olowojoba, The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Education, Mr Abayomi Abolaji, The Director for co-curricular activities District 4 science and technology, Mrs Adenike Abimbola Ajayi, The principals and some teachers from all the schools. Speaking at the event, Abolaji talked about the importance of playing a role as a young person in the environment, from the little habits like disposing of waste properly in your surrounding to taking up bigger roles to combat climate change as that is something he does to date. Dr Salau, on her part, emphasized the significance of the younger generation’s impact and is impressed by how far they have gone to participate in such a program as this. Olowojoba stated that this program proves that every young person’s voice matters and that opportunities like this one breed incredible potential to do great things. He also emphasized that youths should not let things such as their background limit what they can do today and in the future. “Our goal for this program is to provide an opportunity for young people to learn about climate change and environmental sustainability, as well as to provide them with leadership opportunities to think creatively and address some of the difficulties we face as a society.” Olowojoba appreciated its partners, Access Corporation, Lagos State Ministry of Education, Steam Up Lagos, and the Nerdzfactory Foundation Team, for making the event possible.