Olubadan calls for caution, charges new Baales to protect communities Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has threatened to shut down commercial banks operating in the state that refuse to accept old Naira notes. The warning is sequel to complaints that commercial banks and some filling stations were rejecting the old Naira notes as legal tender. The governor spoke, yesterday, while addressing traders at Itoku Kampala Market in Abeokuta, during his re-election campaign in Abeokuta North Local Council.
Abiodun, who frowned on the action of the banks, noted that since the new currency was not available, commercial banks must accept the old notes to ease the suffering of the people. He called on the people to remain calm,  assuring that his government was working to ensure that the situation was brought under control. FOLLOWING reported rejection of the old notes by banks and filling stations among other critical stakeholders in the country, the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Lekan Balogun, Alli Okunmade II, has called on the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to have a rethink on the deadline. In a statement by his Personal Assistant (Media), Oladele Ogunsola, the first class monarch expressed worry at the untold hardship the people are subjected to, pleading that something urgent should be done to address the situation. Balogun, according to the statement, noted that lasts Thursday’s Supreme Court interim order on the suspension of the February 10 deadline, earlier given by the apex bank for the old notes to become illegal tender, was a great relief, which should be built upon. He recalled the advice by the Council of State last week on the same issue, which counselled the CBN to either make new notes available or allow the old and the new notes to co-exist for a period of time, a counsel described as the best in view of the prevailing circumstance. Olubadan equally appealed to the people to exercise high degree of restraint in their reactions to the situation, awaiting positive response and action from the government. Also, the Olubadan has charged his Baales to ensure the safety of life and property in their domains by employing local security operatives to police their areas, especially during the day when residents are out on their daily activities. This charge was given at the installation of new Baales at the ancient Aliiwo Palace, Agodi, which had in attendance some of the members of the Olubadan Advisory Council. In a statement by his PA (Media), the monarch admonished the new Baales to prioritise the security of their subjects, stating that their being made Baales was not without responsibilities. Part of such responsibilities, according to the Ekerin Olubadan, Chief Hamidu Ajibade, who spoke on his behalf, is to ensure the wellbeing of subjects, while their security should be of utmost concern of the heads. “There is no way an absentee head in the present circumstance can make any success, so, you must be available to your people,” he added.  The monarch told the Baales not to engage in any act capable of causing disaffection among their subjects such as land grabbing, noting that their appointments were not to oppress their people, but to defend their rights. “The present traditional administration in Ibadanland frowns on land grabbing and will not hesitate to wield the big stick of removing any one found engaging in such act,” the Olubadan warned. The newly installed Baales were Alhaji Lateef Adegoke (Apena Village), Tajudeen Oyeleye (Elerumooke), Solomon Ojo (Alabuke Olopomeji), Adepoju Afolarin (Efunwole), Amoo Tajudeen (Apadi), Kamorudeen Bello (Onidoko), Gabriel Ojewole (Olulotan Eleegun), Karimu Akanbi (Shokelu) and Lanrewaju Badmus (Eleetu).