The Federal Government has reviewed bilateral air service agreement (BASA) with Uganda as part of efforts to facilitate direct air connectivity between the two countries. The Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, led a delegation to Kampala, Uganda to hold talks with his Ugandan counterpart, who oversees Works and Transport, Gen. Edward Katumba Kamala on measures to review the air service agreement between the two countries signed in 2002 and reviewed in 2005. The meeting was to provide the necessary administrative and technical support to the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) agreed during the last International Civil Aviation Negotiation (ICAN) event, which was held in Abuja from 5th to 9th December, 2022. Gen. Kamala, while receiving the delegation, said the meeting would provide the necessary political leadership that will facilitate implementation of the Agreements reached during the meeting. He reiterated his country’s quest for the operation of direct flight into Nigeria using its national carrier, the Uganda Airlines. He also sought technical cooperation and collaboration between the Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT), Zaria, and the East African Civil Aviation Academy (EACAA), located in Soroti, Uganda. Equally, the Ugandan Aeronautical Authorities also solicited technical support from Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA). In his response, Sirika underscored the importance of air transportation, which he said remains the major veritable means of connecting the people of Africa and enhancing trade. He stated that air transportation will do well in Africa with its population of over 1.37 Billion and urged African Nations to leverage the opportunity of Single Africa Air Transport Market ( SAATM) to attain the 2065 Africa Agenda. He assured the Government of Uganda to facilitate necessary efforts to ensure air connectivity becomes a reality as both countries have come a long way and promised positive responses to the requests made by Uganda. 