Chairman, Lagos State chapter of Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, Chief Supo Sonibare, has condemned the skirmishes reported in parts of the state following the victory of Labour Party (LP) presidential candidate in the state. The LP presidential candidate, Peter Obi, defeated former governor of Lagos, Bola Tinubu of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The victory has been attributed to the new Obidient Movement, which seeks good governance across the country. Sonibare, in a statement, yesterday, accused some officials of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) of collaborating with political elements in Lagos to tamper with the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) to manipulate the election results in the state. He said: “Afenifere has observed the results of the presidential election in Lagos. This result has confirmed the returns from our chairmen in the 20 local councils in Lagos, that Peter Obi emerged the victor of the polls in Lagos. “This was despite the suppression of votes and violence clearly intended to deter perceived potential supporters of the Rainbow Coalition, which had adopted Obi as their joint candidate, from being able to cast their votes. “Many of these segment of supporters were prevented from voting. There was lack of diligence on the part of INEC officials, who allegedly connived with ruling party leaders in many local councils by refusing to upload election results at polling units, claiming the same BVAS appliance, which had successfully accredited voters, suddenly became inoperable in uploading the results.” While expressing gratitude to all citizens and residents of Lagos, who trooped out to exercise their fundamental rights to vote, he said: “We have, however, been inundated with reports of violence in parts of Lagos, against non-indigenes. The Yoruba are an urbane, accommodating ethnic group that will always eschew violence in expressing their preferred candidate in any democratic process. “All of us in Lagos must appreciate that our political decisions is not an ethnic warfare or contest between Yoruba and Igbo or between Yoruba and any other ethnic group.” Many Igbo voted for Tinubu in states in the South East, as many Yoruba have also elected to vote for Obi in Lagos and other states in the South West. We enjoin the Lagos Commissioner of Police, to uphold the rule of law and ensure the protection of life and property of Lagos residents.” He welcomed the statement from the APC Presidential Campaign Council (PPC) enjoining Lagosians not to resort to violence. 