The World Bank and the Federal Government, yesterday, launched a six-year livestock development initiative (L-PRES) to increase livestock production and reduce farmers-herders conflict in the country. The Chief of Staff to the President, Prof Ibrahim Gambari, unveiled the project at the State Banquet Hall in Abuja. Gambari, while delivering a message on behalf of President Muhammadu Buhari, stressed the importance of the project and urged all the 36 states and the FCT to key into the project While commending the successful vaccination of livestock across the country against transboundary illnesses that helped to protect the nation’s livestock sector, he said, “Our commitment to the health and welfare of our livestock population in line with global best practices is evidently clear in the huge investments we have made into that. “Between 2020 and 2022, more than 12.5 million doses of vaccines have been procured and administered against transboundary animal diseases of livestock and poultry. This is set to continue until 75 per cent coverage is achieved, which will guarantee eradication of these diseases, some of which are zoonotic in nature. In the long-term, it will facilitate Nigeria’s participation in the international meat trade.” He further stated that the L-PRES project would “complement our efforts in the sector, as it is set to provide financing for explicitly mainstreaming climate change adaptation and mitigation objectives across all relevant policies and strategies, including the Livestock Master Plan (LMP), the National Livestock Transformation Plan (NLTP) and the National Agriculture Transformation Innovation Policy (NATIP).” The Deputy Country Representative, World Bank, Kathy Whimp, said apart from providing funds, the bank is also going to provide technical assistance towards the success of the initiative, adding that this is the first time in 20 years that the Bank is investing in livestock development in Nigeria. She said L-PRES is going to  assist Nigeria address conflict as well create wealth and jobs for younger people. Minister of Agriculture and Rural development Muhammad Mahmood Abubakar, said the Livestock Productivity and Resilience support project is designed to address challenges associated with livestock production, including lack of access to grazing areas and water drinking points, rustling and transboundary diseases.