Christian leaders and members of Leah Sharibu’s family on, Sunday, intensified the call for the release of their abducted daughter who has been in captivity of the Boko Haram terrorist group since February 2018. They gathered at the nation’s capital, Abuja to pray for her and others in Boko Haram captivity. The service was held in commemoration of Leah’s five years in captivity. Sharibu was among the 110 students who were abducted by Boko Haram terrorists from Government Girls’ Science and Technical College, Dapchi in Yunusari Local Government Area of Yobe State, on February 19, 2018. Five of the girls died on the day of the abduction while the rest were released in March 2018 leaving Sharibu behind because she refused to abandon her Christian faith. Before the Dapchi schoolgirls were abducted, 276 girls from a school in Chibok, Borno State were abducted by Boko Haram in 2014. Speaking during the prayer session held at the Church of Christ in Nations (COCIN), Garki, Abuja, President, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Rev. Daniel Okoh, said Leah’s story had become a metaphor for all those who are currently held captive by Boko Haram and other terrorist groups in Nigeria. Represented by the president and CEO of Gideon and Funmi Para-Mallam Peace Foundation, Rev. Gideon Para-Mallam, the CAN president lamented that the Christian community has made several appeals both to her captors and the federal government to ensure her safe return but all to no avail. Okoh also urged Nigerians to use this opportunity to vote for leaders who will not pay deaf ears to their cries in the forthcoming general elections. According to him, the incessant abductions and inability of the federal government to secure the release to Leah is tragic reminder of the reality of religious persecution going on in the country. “It is also a testament to the power of faith and courage in the face of adversity that is synonymous to the Christian faith. It is a tragic reminder of the reality of religious persecution going on in the country”, Okoh stated. The Christian leader said: “This year marks five years since the horrific event took place and Leah is still in captivity. Leah Sharibu’s case is just one out of the numerous cases of faith-based persecutions going on in Nigeria almost on a daily basis. “Boko Haram elements have constantly unleashed terror on Nigerians particularly in the North East which led to the close of some schools in the height of their atrocities and targeted abductions. “Leah’s refusal to abandon her beliefs, even in the face of grave danger, has inspired and will continue to inspire many people around the world to stand up for what they believe in and fight for justice and freedom of Belief for all the people around the world. “As long as we believe that Leah is alive, we shall continue to speak and ask for her release likewise other people held captive in various kidnappers and Boko Haram cells around the country. “Aside, inspiring those going through persecution to keep the faith alive, Leah’s story sheds light on the rising insecurity situation in Nigeria and the unsuccessful attempt of the government to keep Nigerians safe. “This anniversary may hopefully move the government to be more committed to securing the release of Leah and other captives alive. Many people still get kidnapped on a daily basis in Nigeria and many of the kidnap victims do not make it out alive even after paying ransom. “Behind Leah’s story is anguish, pain, heart break and fear for her parents and relations. As a nation, we must arise and speak up against every form of injustice no matter who is involved. We must demand better from our leaders. Okoh said Nigerians against injustice and for fairness until every Nigerian is free from oppression. “I implore everyone to make good use of the opportunity  the forthcoming elections presents to elect leaderships who will not pay deaf ears to the cries of the common people. Bad leadership affects us all in many ways no matter our tribe or religion. “We should therefore put aside tribal sentiments, religious biases, and personal gains and do what we know is right by voting people with character, capacity and compassion.” Speaking in his own capacity,  Para-Mallam said President Muhammadu Buhari should secure the release of those in captivity as a parting gift to Nigerians. He added: “We have to sustain efforts in continuing to advocate until leah shareable is out and all other Christian girls who are in Boko Haram captivity. I need to add also that the younger Christian and Muslim girls who are in Boko Haram captivity. “Our objective and our goal is to ensure that all are set free. Now, as the CAN president said, we have made efforts to no avail does it mean we should give up? No. It’s basically to continue to challenge the government. The government of President Muhammadu Buhari, you have a few more days in the office, fulfill your promise to deliver Leah. “We don’t want it to be on record that you never managed to get Leah out. You’ve helped to bring up some of the Chibok girls, which we are grateful for. But there are also multiple girls in captivity. Leah is still in captivity, five years, several other girls still in captivity as a matter of fact, I picked up on information that there are over 96 of some of our girls still in captivity. So we’ll continue to advocate plead and make our case to the President. “But we move beyond this President if he doesn’t do it, to call to the next president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to make bringing Leah back to her parents and other girls in captivity. a top priority of your government when you commence, make it a surprise gift to all of us in Nigeria.” Founder of the Leah Foundation, Dr Gloria Puldu, said it is a shame that Nigerians are still calling on the goverment five years later to secure the release of Leah and other Nigerians in captivity. She called on presidential candidates contesting Saturday’s election to make clear statement on what they will do to secure Leah’s release if elected. Describing the government’s attitude as a broken promise, she stated: “They have given us a promise five years ago that they are going to release Leah but down the lane, it has not been fulfilled. They have less than 100 days in office to go and for us, as far as we are concerned it is a broken promises, but they said they still have science. “They can get Leah to be released and so her parents are calling on all the people that are involved internationally and even locally in our government that they should please do the needful. They (Leah’s parent) want their daughter back. Today is a very sad day for them. So, we are asking every peaceful loving person on earth to join us in prayer like we have done today and to just pray that the Lord will give the government the wisdom and give them the courage to go ahead and secure her release.” 