Farmers across the states of Ogun, Oyo and Kwara have reacted differently to the prediction of early rainfall in 2023 by the Nigeria Metrological Agency (NiMET). The farmers, through their associations, expressed their views in separate interviews with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday. While some of the farmers were optimistic about the prediction, hence getting ready for farming season, others took it with a pinch of salt. For instance, Mr Monsuru Adebayo, the Chairman, Rice Farmers’ Association of Nigeria (RIFAN) in Ogun, said that various trainings and seminars had been organised for his members since NiMET’s recent forecast. Adebayo recalled that many rice farmers in Ogun experienced poor yield in 2022, because of climate change and non-challant attitude to the predictions and pieces of advice from the agency. “So, this year, every one of us is prepared and we have educated local farmers to get set against early March, according to the prediction. “By next month, most farmers will start land preparations and the tractors with other equipment, which are now being put in good condition, will be taken to the farms for land preparations,” he said. Adebayo, however, called on the Federal Government to take steps to stop rain-dependent agriculture. “Now that our rainfall patterns are being affected by climate change, governments at all levels should equip farmers in their respective areas to be able to engage in irrigation farming,” he said. Advising farmers generally, Adebayo encouraged them to plant drought-resistant crops in case the early rain was accompanied with short cessation, which would result in dryness. Also, Mr Femi Balogun, the Chairman, Ogun chapter of the Cassava Growers Associations of Nigeria (CGAN), said that early rain in March would favour his members. “When it happens, it will favour us, because, cassava farmers normally plant around that period. So, the situation will have positive impact on our yields,” Balogun said. Also, Mr Johnson Ajibola, the Chairman, Youths Farmers’ Association, Ogun chapter, described the early rain forecast as a positive development. According to Ajibola, the situation will favour those who have planted before now, because when the rain falls early, it will result in improved yield and cause harvest to be easy. Commenting, Mr Olusesan Sowunmi, Ogun Chairman of the Cocoa Farmers’ Association of Nigeria, confirmed that his members have received the prediction with joy and had begun preparations for the planting season. 