The New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) in Kano has unveiled public fundraising for its gubernatorial campaign of Abba Kabiru Yusuf popularly known as “Abba Gida”. At the special crowd fundraising dinner organized by the party to draw financial support from members, NNPP said over N511 million was generated, with the largest individual share came from a member representing Tofa/Dawakin-Tofa/Rimin-Gado at the house of representatives Tijani Abdulkadir Jobe who donated N50 million. Speaking at the dinner, the Chairman of the fundraiser and former presidential aide, Abdulrahman Kawu Sumaila explained that NNPP is committed to embarking on the campaign and election process with support from members. The former member of the House of Representatives refuted allegations of vote buying and election rigging and added that the crowdfunding is to raise resources for logistics. Sumaila contended that NNPP members are dedicated and loyal supporters of Kwankwasiyya ideology which is devoid of financial incentive. He insisted that NNPP is prepared to reclaim Kano from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in next month’s gubernatorial poll. “Election is fast approaching and NNPP is not leaving any stone untold to reclaim Kano. We have gathered as NNPP and Kwankwasiyya family to mobilize resources for the governorship campaign and election,” Sumaila said. “Now, in less than three hours, we have received public support amounting to over N500 million and we are still counting. As you know we are not in government so we don’t have any privilege to government fund and that is why we open this crowdfunding where we solicit support no matter the amount. “And for that nursing the insinuation that we are pulling resources to buy or rig election, I will tell them that they are wrong because our members who are core loyalists of Kwankwasiyya are not embracing the ideology because of money and we don’t need to give out money before getting the vote. The resources are meant for logistics during campaign and election.” The NNPP gubernatorial candidate, Abba Kabiru Yusuf, lauded the support of members who donated their resources reminded that NNPP will not fail to deliver on the public mandate if voted to power. Yusuf however challenged the ruling party to disclose the sources of the huge resources deployed for their campaign rallies for public assessment. 