• Gwarzo Rates Him High In National Spread
Former Vice President and People’s Democratic Party ( PDP) Presidential Candidate Atiku Abubakar, has vowed to defeat All Progressives Congress (APC) Candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and Labour party ( LP) Candidate, Peter Obi in the presidential election. Atiku, who spoke, yesterday, in Yola, Adamawa State, as he rounds off his campaign, said that “he is the only candidate with the capacity to return the country to it lost glory.” He said that he has a blueprint that would restored Nigeria’s past glory in the areas of economy, security and others. Other party chieftains that attended the rally urged Nigerians to vote for Atiku for Nigeria’s progress. Adamawa’s State Governor, Ahmadu Fintiri, said that Atiku stood out as “the only candidate with the capacity to tackle the crisis of insecurity, youth unemployment and economy.” In the same vein, the National Coordinator of the Atiku/Okowa Campaign Council for People With Disability, Senator Hayatu Bello Gwarzo, has disclosed that Atiku’s winning chance is 80 per cent. Speaking at the North Central Town Hall meeting of People With Disability (PWD), yesterday, Gwarzo noted that Tinubu and Obi had no national spread like that of Atiku. The former lawmaker, noted that “it’s only Atiku that cares for the over 32 million PWD,” adding that Atiku’s promise to give five percent slots in his government to people with disability was attracting more persons to him. Gwarzo said: “Hopefully, we are expecting the president-in-waiting, Atiku Abubakar to win the February 25 election, by a landslide margin. “Atiku is a man of the people. He is a man of integrity, a man that is concerned with what is happening in the country. Sincerely speaking, we believe he has the solution to the problem Nigeria is facing. So, chances of Atiku Abubakar if I can put it on percentage, I will put it to 75 percent to 80pr cent, God’s willing. “ Bola Tinubu and Peter Obi don’t have the national spread. They are banking on their regions. So, regional politics had gone forever.It was during Sardauna and Awolowo era that we had regional politics. He further said: “By registration of clusters, we have over 32 million people living with disability, so with that population they never cared to invite us to join any of their project, only Atiku invited us, that we should join him and join hands to save Nigeria. “Sincerely speaking, that is why you see us here going up and down. We didn’t talk to him that we want to join him. He invited us to work with him…” 