The bid by the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Mr Peter Obi to occupy the exalted seat of the presidency received a boost following the resolve by the opposition African Democratic Congress (ADC) to endorse his aspiration. ADC’s board of trustees (BOT) chairman, Dr Mani Ibrahim at a lavish ceremony held in Abuja yesterday urged Nigerians to go out massively to vote or Obi and his running mate Ahmed Baba Datti. Nevertheless, he said for the collaboration to be more effective, ADC candidates for Governorship, Senatorial, House of Representatives and States Assembly positions should receive reciprocal support where they are more dominant than their Labour party candidates. He declared: “After our due diligence and critical assessment of the 17 Presidential Candidates and what they have to offer Nigerians, and after consulting our Grand Patron and former President, General Olusegun Obasanjo, we decided as a party that the Obi-Datti Movement is a worthy cause to endorse. Today, we form this Star Alliance for one purpose only: to ensure a loud victory. On hand to endorse Obi were members of the Star Alliance Partners comprising Nigeria Mothers for Good Governance, Fulani United, Nigeria Artisans, League of Imams, Nigeria Traders, Yoruba United, Mega Political Coalition, Kanuris United, Nigeria Professional Group, DG Global Groups, Almalgamated Coalitions, Groups and Nigeria Legions United. Continuing, he said: “This Star Alliance is significant, because we must decide to shape the space mindfully going forward or believe me, this country is doomed. A whole generation of 20/30 years has passed since, after the annulled June 12th election of 1993. “This democracy was as a result of the combined efforts and sacrifices of many: civil society leaders, concerned professionals, labour, PRONACO and NADECO, Nigeria’s International friends, and many other individuals and patriots. “Today, Nigeria has become more divided than ever before. Leaders at National and State levels have learnt the art of designing and borrowing framework to source for money across the world to no end, while they leave the country and future generation in perpetual debts. For over two years now, Nigeria has maintained the shameful record of the poverty capital of the world. “The insurgency and brigandage at all level across the country is mind bugling. Boko haram, banditry, kidnapping and dangerous activities of herders who have infiltrated the country from all over Africa continues to leave the country in a state of depression, despair and death. Despite the huge borrowing, the infrastructural deficit in Nigeria today is beyond redemption. “Apart from the recent CBN’s policy that has taken people back into serious poverty, fuel hike and other National issues are worrisome. If anything untoward happens to our democracy, the National Assembly, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the Political Parties will be the most hit as have happened in our not too distant history. We must therefore be wary. “However, while we will do everything within our power and position to ask party members and supporters to vote for Peter Obi and Datti Baba-Amed for President and Vice President, “This will enable the two parties to have good numbers of Legislators to back Obi-Datti’s Presidency. As we stand, we are aware of quite a number of our Candidates who have personally endorsed the Obi-Datti Movement. “In the same vein, our position, advocacy and projections are firmly based on a government of national unity, collegiate and translational leadership which we believe this alliance will highly benefit from. As we look forward to a victorious election come Saturday, 25th of February 2023, we encourage every Nigerian to go out massively to vote Obi-Datti for President and Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” ADC Abia governorship candidate Sunday Onuoha assured that Obi has the capacity to enthrone good governance and accountable stewardship in the country. At the event were the national chairman of the party, chief Ralph Nwosu, representatives of the ADC candidates angling for various seats across the country and hundreds of Obi-Datti supporters. 