To discover talent very early and nurture them, Dansol Nursery and Primary School, Ikeja, recently held the 6th edition of its inter-house sports competition. Speaking at the event which held at Agege Stadium, Executive Director, Dansol Christian Mission, Omotara Olanitori, said the school held the competition for nursery and primary school pupils because they see sport as important to students well being and development. Olanitori said it is important to discover the gift God has deposited in children early and train them, particularly in the area of sports.  She said once a child is gifted in a particular sporting activity, such as athletics, football or basketball, they should start to cultivate those talents to bring out the best in them. Speaking on how they ensure students do not neglect their study at the expense of sports, Olanitori said the school creates time and there is proper planning to ensure that teaching and learning are not left behind. She emphasised that the school balances academics and sports, and ensures that students involved in sports do not lag behind in their academics but combine both to develop. While commending parents for their support, the executive director urged them to identify the gifts their wards have early and invest in them to help them hone those talents to excel in life. Head of School, Tsola Oladosu, who rated the competition high said it is getting better, adding that new talents are discovered through it. Oladosu said the school has plans to leverage on the competition to nurture those talents, taking them to competitions and inter school events, even at international level. To this end, she said the school has employed professionals to help train the children At the end, Olive House won the inter-house sport, while Cedar House placed second and Palm House clinched the third place. House Master, Olive House, Mrs Deborah Agbokeye, attributed the success to God and good planning. She said winning the competition consecutively for two years was exciting and a dream that has become reality. According to her, during the training and preparation toward the competition, the game masters discovered some strength in some of the pupils and devised means to leverage on them to win more laurels. The children competed in activities such as hurdle race, boot race, chubby race, parent’s race, 4 x 75 and 4 x100m relay, picking the cup with a stick and bursting of balloons for the nursery class. 