The Executive Vice-Chairman and Chief Executive of the National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI), Prof. Mohammad Sani Haruna, yesterday, said that the agency would modernise agribusiness to end hunger and create jobs in the country. He also said that the agency was set for the production of made-in-Nigeria agricultural implements, machinery and equipment, adding that the tools would be manufactured to suit the peculiarity of Nigerian soil and topography. Haruna made the submissions at the commissioning of Agricultural Machinery and Equipment Development Institute (AMEDI), Lafia, Nasarawa State. AMEDI is one of the 12 new institutes to fast-track transition of Nigeria to a manufacturing knowledge based economy. He said AMEDI was targeted at the use of science and engineering infrastructure to support the presidential efforts in the attainment of food and nutritional security in Nigeria and for Nigerians. “Mr. President may recall his directive for the establishment of six new agricultural-technology based institutes, with one in each geo-political zone of Nigeria in 2021, as part of the 12 new institutes approved to be established. “NASENI under my leadership has developed a culture of speedy delivery on presidential directives not only to justify the new status of the agency, but also to fast-track transition of Nigeria to a manufacturing knowledge-based economy. He said: “The conceptualisation of this model institute was targeted at the use of science and engineering infrastructure to support presidential efforts towards the attainment of food and nutritional security in Nigeria, and for Nigerians. “The peculiarity of our soil with inherent edaphic factors and topography requires the production of made in Nigeria agricultural implements, machinery and equipment that can support responsible and productive agricultural practices in the face of climate change. Haruna listed other benefits of the institute to include the production of food processing implements. “The in-built capabilities of the institute will ensure the use of additive and smart manufacturing platforms already acquired by NASENI system-wide to design, develop, assemble and produce agricultural and food processing implements for various classes of farmers.” He thanked Buhari for granting and approving all that NASENI has asked for. 