There were rousing receptions and gale of endorsements for Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State and senatorial candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), as well as other party candidates in the state when the governor’s campaign train visited Ozi-Edem, Umabi Ugwuoye, Nru, Nguru, and Obimo in Nsukka Council, yesterday, ahead of the forthcoming general elections. At Ozi-Edem, the jubilant people of the community, who came out in their numbers at the residence of Aloysius Enete to welcome the governor, expressed joy and fulfillment over what they described as the first visit of a governor to their community. The people celebrated Ugwuanyi for the ongoing construction of Ozi-Edem/Akpa-Edem/Okpuje road, as well as his administration’s empowerment and rural development programmes, which, they said, have benefited the people of Enugu North Senatorial District immensely. They declared their resolve to vote Ugwuanyi for Senate, PDP governorship candidate, Dr. Peter Mbah, the party’s candidate for Nsukka/Igbo-Eze Federal Constituency, Vita Abba, and candidate for Nsukka West Constituency for House of Assembly, Amos Amadi Agbo, stressing that their support for the governor and the PDP is massive and resolute. The story was the same in Umabi, Ugwuoye Nsukka, where the governor was received by people of the community, led by the traditional ruler, Igwe George Asadu, the Board Chairman of the Enugu State Waste Management Authority (ESWAMA), Pastor Chinweike Amoke and the President General of Ihe Town Union, Nduka Amoke. They also declared their support for Ugwuanyi’s senatorial bid and pledged to vote for him and other PDP candidates in the state. In Nru, the excited crowd also expressed their endorsement for his candidature. At Ogige Market, Nsukka, traders and tricycle (keke) riders cheered the governor, and endorsed his senatorial bid. They also hailed his remarkable achievements in Nsukka zone and beyond. Arriving Obimo later in the evening, shortly after a successful outing at Nguru Nsukka, where people of the community, including leaders of religious and traditional institutions, equally endorsed the governor for Senate and commended his great transformation programmes in Nsukka zone, including establishment of the State University of Medical and Applied Sciences (SUMAS), Igbo-Eno; the Federal Polytechnic, Ohodo; ultra-modern township stadium; Opi-Nsukka dual carriageway fitted with street and traffic lights, 31km Udenu Ring Road and other network of roads, among others.