Pledges support for Obi
The Igbo World Assembly (IWA) has called on Ndigbo across the country to ignore calls to boycott the 2023 general elections. The umbrella body of Igbo organisations across the world urged Ndigbo to support the presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi, and ensure the former governor of Anambra State wins the February 25 polls. In a statement by the Vice Chairman of IWA, Christian Onuorah, and Secretary General, Oliver Nwankwor, after a global zoom teleconference, the group said Obi, if elected, would make positive changes in the country. The Igbo Diaspora group disclosed that they voted unanimously to endorse and support Obi and his running mate, Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed. The group said: “We have taken critical   and extensive   look at major political parties, their candidates’ track records, characters, capacity and capabilities, as well as party manifestoes before endorsing Obi and his running-mate. “We insist that Nigerians should come out to participate in the democratic elections without fear or favour and vote for Obi.” The choice of Obi, according to IWA, has generated widespread acceptance by Nigerians, particularly youths and women worldwide, given the fact that he is the only governor that is not in the radar of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The group added: “We strongly believe that Obi’s victory will turn things around for the better.  Nigeria is a consumption economy. Obi has been preaching against that.  The positive energy, hope and faith in a new Nigeria will usher in the spirit of committed resolution to Nigeria’s challenges. “Obi has the track record of standing up for rights of Nigerians, and he is working tirelessly as he did during his tenure as Anambra State Governor to improve the lives of Nigerians. “He fought corruption as governor, and also left money in the state’s account rather than leaving it in debt. He promoted good governance. He has shown that he is committed to good, financial, anti-corrupt, transparent and accountable governance.”