The Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has donated N70 million to families of three slain police officers and an injured officer who were on active duty at the Okoro nu Odo (Rumuokoro) Flyover in Obio/Apkor Council of the state in December 2022. The governor presented a cheque of N20m to the widows of each slain officer and N10m to the injured officer at the Nigerian Police Headquarters, Rivers State Police Command, yesterday. Wike, represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Dr. Tammy Wenike Danagogo, commiserated with the Police Command and families of the slain officers. The Governor, in a statement by the Head of Communications, Office of the Secretary to the State Government, Juliana Masi, noted that the Government of Rivers State introduced the Officers Welfare Policy to encourage and support officers and their families in the face of fatality while on active duty and to make certain that men and women of the various security agencies who work hard to guarantee the security of Rivers State are not left alone when they suffer a casualty. He said: “We are here to let you know that the officers did not die in vain. When you serve this country and serve this state, it is never in vain. Whatever situation you find yourselves in, we are aware of and as a government, identify with you.
“Your husbands’ died while serving this country and state. Rivers State Government truly appreciates their efforts and contributions.” We know this token will not wipe away your tears or replace your husbands but we believe that it will impress upon your mind that your husbands died while working for a worthy cause and even God Almighty, will not abandon those they left behind,” he said. The Governor admonished injured officer to keep fate as the State Government has taken up the expenses incurred in the recovery. He added: “Residents of Rivers State can testify that indeed the efforts of the police and other security agencies in the state are yielding dividends in terms of peace and security. It is to encourage you to continue in the good works and double your efforts and let you know the Government of Rivers State will always stand with you”. Also, the Commissioner of Police, Rivers State Command, Okon Effiong, thanked the Governor for honouring the families of the slain officers and standing tall with the Police Command in its trying times. Effiong said: “This day is a day that reinforces our belief that the Government of Rivers State is very responsive. It is ordinarily a day that is very sad, especially for those who have lost their loved ones because no amount of money can buy life. We have had instances where people died in the line of duty and nobody recognised them. By all standards, you are different from most others.” He further charged beneficiaries to judiciously use the token to the benefit of their families. The widow of the late Inspector Enekele John, Mrs. Maria John, prayed for the blessings of God on the Governor for remembering the widows and supporting the families of the slain officers.