Okere, others back gov’s re-election Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has said his administration takes decisions based on solid economic principles.
Addressing the Okere-in-Council at the palace of the Okere of Saki, Oba Khalid Olabisi, yesterday, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) standard-bearer in the March 11 governorship election expressed his determination to strengthen the economy of Saki to lift the economies of Old Ifedapo and Old Irepo federal constituencies. The governor noted that the government’s decision to fix the Saki/Ogbooro/Igboho Road was hinged on the determination to boost the economy of Saki and adjoining local councils. He added that the 46-kilometre road would reach Ogbooro in Saki East Local Council and Igboho in Orelope Local Council in the next few months, while the administration would move on to fix the second phase of the road by linking Igboho to Igbeti and Kishi. Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, on behalf of the media committee of the governor’s re-election campaign council, quoted the governor as saying that under Omituntun 2.0, the government would move on to fix inner roads in Saki, including the Barracks/Ajegunle Junction/Sango/Adabo Road and the road to the Okerete International Border Market. He noted that all the plans would be executed based on sound economic principles rather than ‘a nice to see’ approach. When Saki’s infrastructure is fixed, he added, it would be the base for massive economic activities in the two federal constituencies. Makinde, who appreciated the Okere of Saki, the Saki Parapo and religious bodies in Saki West Local Council for their support over the years, said: “We have said that the development of our infrastructure will haunt our economy. What I am most particular about is for Saki’s economy to lift the economy of the whole Ifedapo and Irepo.
“The road Kabiyesi talked about (Barracks/Adabo Road) may not be dualised, but we will fix it. The road that will boost the economy of Saki is what we need to complete, which is the Saki/Ogboro/Igboho road, and link it to Kishi and Igbeti, so that from that constituency, Saki will be the base for the activities that will be happening around here.” The Saki monarch appreciated the governor for all he had done in Sakiland, pledging that his people would support the governor in appreciation for everything he has done for the community. The traditional ruler equally urged the governor to fix the Technical College, Saki, “which is facing dereliction”, as well as the Barracks/Ajegunle Junction/Adabo Road, expressing optimism of the governor’s victory at the polls. Similarly, the President of the Saki Parapo, Chief Festus Adejumobi, hailed the governor for his love for Saki, noting that the community is solidly behind his re-election bid. The governor had earlier met with the leadership of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) at the Baptist Church, Isale Taba, where he thanked the Christian body for its support over the years. 