•Youth leader reposes confidence in candidate, hopeful of victory All Progressives Congress (APC) standard-bearer for the February 25 presidential election, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has assured Nigerians that if elected the nation’s next leader, he would end poverty and grow all sectors of the economy for job and wealth creation. Making the pledge yesterday at a campaign rally in Lokoja, Kogi State, the erstwhile Lagos governor regretted that the opposition parties were making political capital of the hardship in the country. On the Ajaokuta Iron and Steel Company, he promised to ensure its swift revival to generate employment for the teeming youths and conserve foreign exchange. His words: “Kogi is the mineral hub of Nigeria. We are going to work with all stakeholders to tap into the mineral resources, which abound in the state and create a prosperous country that we all would be proud of.” While thanking the government and people for the rousing welcome, he assured them that their sacrifice would not be in vain.He equally promised to dredge River Niger, which will allow ships to berth in inland ports, among other critical projects. Earlier, Governor Yahaya Bello promised to deliver more votes to the candidate than he did for President Muhammadu Buhari in 2019. He appealed to Tinubu not to relent in reviving the Ajaokuta steel plan if he gets nod of the citizens to pilot affairs of the most populous black nation. IN a related development, APC Northwest Youth Leader, Abdulhamid Moh’d Oscar, has reposed confidence in Tinubu, saying he would triumph at the poll, the prevailing fuel and new Naira scarcity notwithstanding. He said Nigerians “clearly understand that the sudden scarcity of currency and fuel was masterminded by some people around President Muhamadu Buhari and the main opposition party, who want to prevent APC from coasting to victory in the upcoming general elections.” According to him, at this point Nigerians have become “wiser and understood that politics is being played to prevent them from electing who is capable of fixing the country, and they will vote Tinubu without money and fuel.” Oscar, in a statement, explained: “The crises currently experienced by Nigerians were intentionally designed at this time to cause a major disruption in the lives of people and bring commercial transaction to a halt to pitch the people against APC.”