The Tinubu/Shettima (TinKas) Support Group has said that the presidential flag bearer of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu would lift Nigerians out of poverty, if elected in the upcoming general election. A member of the group, Mohammed Umar stated this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Gombe on Monday. He said Tinubu would implement programmes that would empower more Nigerians, enhance wealth creation and eradicate poverty. Umar said Tinubu had proven to be a leader that encouraged businesses and other commercial activities to thrive as he had done in Lagos State. “Today more Nigerians are working in Lagos State because of the initiatives Tinubu brought that transformed the state. “Tinubu will transform Nigeria in such manner for us to have a country where the citizenry would be above poverty,” he said. He said the group had embarked on door-to-door campaign to mobilise votes for Tinubu in the North-East region. Umar said he was convinced that Tinubu would transform Nigeria, adding,  “that’s why in October 2022, I walked from Gombe to Abuja, a distance of over 425 kilometres, to mobilise supports for Tinubu/Shettima ticket.” Also speaking, the Gombe State Coordinator, Arewa for Tinubu 2023, Mr Ibrahim Muhammad described Tinubu as a leader that would improve the lives of Nigerians. He said Tinubu’s capacity was the reason that his support group with over 5,000 members were campaigning for the presidential candidate across 11 local government areas of the state. On his part, Usman Danladi, another APC supporter said with the kind of his ideas, Tinubu would create job opportunities for Nigerians, to enable them to create wealth for themselves. “Under Tinubu’s leadership as president God willing, only a lazy man will find it difficult, but once you are ready to work, you will find Nigeria a place to enjoy yourselves. “Tinubu is in Gombe State today (Monday) and you can see the kind of support here at the stadium everywhere is full. “This is because of what he has done, many of our sons and daughters have enjoyed his goodwill as governor of Lagos State, and they are the ones who convinced many of us”. For Hauwa Ibrahim, voting for Tinubu in 2023 election is the only way to putting Nigeria on the path of prosperity, ading that, “we will ensure that our votes are for Tinubu and Governor Inuwa Yahaya.” 