Attaining a full digital economy was the major discussion of the second General Assembly of the Digital Cooperation Organisation (DCO) in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. ADEYEMI ADEPETUN, who was there, writes on the readiness of member countries to make this a reality. The unprecedented disruption by COVID-19 is accelerating the urgency for agility, adaptability and transformation. Industry structures and business models are being disrupted – and the digitalisation of the economy is being rapidly accelerated.  Identified challenges
Prior to now, Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) participation in the digital economy is seen as being hampered by many infrastructure challenges, particularly those relating to the Internet. While big organisations can muster the resources they need for infrastructure development to participate in the Net economy, the challenge is to get SMEs on board by working around their resources and skills shortages.
  
Recently, a common resource-related problem has been SMEs’ limited capacity to buy and sustain broadband. Information security also causes great concern to SMEs because they largely rely on vendors for advice and assistance; most do not have the capacity to implement their own security measures. This and other issues relating to security and privacy over the Internet are overwhelming barriers to the adoption of e-commerce.  Need for global collaboration
INDEED, at the meeting, which the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Prof. Isa Pantami, led the Nigerian delegation to, including the Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Danbatta; Director-General of NITDA, Kashifu Inuwa; Managing Director, Nigerian Communication Satellite, Tukur Muhammad Funtua, among others, the DCO, which called for global collaboration to bridge the technological divide, announced its 2030 roadmap.
  
The plan targets an ambitious future in which the digital economy contributes 30 per cent to the global Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and creates 30 million jobs worldwide. The plan is designed to promote common interest, advocate advanced cooperation, build regulatory framework and business environments, and ensure the inclusive and trustworthy nature of the digital economy at local, regional, and global levels.
  
DCO Secretary-General, Deemah Al-Yahya, said: “The beauty of this roadmap is, it is very agile and very nimble.
 
“It looks at all the challenges that we are facing now in our member countries. It goes in-depth into what the needs are, and what reforms we should change, and what initiatives we should run to achieve these targets.
  
“We really believe that with the right cooperation between the governments, in the private sector and civil society, we will actually over achieve by 2030.” Call to action
The call to action mirrors the goals of the organisation to create a space that promotes under-represented groups, such as women and youth, and helps to affirm their value within the digital infrastructure.  Members Readiness
Speaking on readiness of member states to drive digital transformation, Bahrain’s Minister of Digital Economy and Communications, Ahmad Hanandeh, said the meeting was an opportunity for DCO members to come together to foster digital development across the countries. 