Suspect seeks out-of-court settlement
Eighty-five-year-old woman, Mrs. Bolaji Rachael Fadele, has cried out over alleged theft of about N1 million from her bank account. According to the octogenarian, the missing fund, which she had been saving for a while, was meant for her burial ceremony, as she had no surviving child to plan her funeral after her demise. While speaking to newsmen yesterday at the premises of an Ondo State Magistrate’s Court in Akure, where a man suspected to have stolen the money was arraigned by the Nigeria and Civil Defense Corps (NSCDC), Fadele said she worked and retired as a civil servant in Oyo State, but had to return to Ondo State after the death of her only child. She said: “I was saving the money for my feeding and also for my burial ceremony. I have no children, and I do not want any relatives to carry the burden of my funeral when I die. I am 85 and I do not know when I will die.” Narrating how the money was stolen from her account in October 2022, Fadele said after responding to some questions during a phone call from someone, who claimed to be from her bank, about N1million was withdrawn from her account. Following an investigation after she reported the incident to operatives of the NSCDC, it was revealed that the money was transferred to an Opay account belonging to one Emmanuel Nwankpa. Investigation further revealed that it was the phone line of Nwankpa that was used to call the victim, after the suspect was apprehended and his bank account blocked. However, the suspect, who was arraigned on two-count charges of fraudulent stealing, pleaded not guilty to the crime. His lawyer, A. Y. Aloyu told the court that his client was ready for an out-of-court settlement, but the prosecuting attorney, David Ebriku, informed the court that the suspect would be prosecuted even if he paid the money. Ebriku, who said the offence was against the state, told the court he would call three witnesses to testify in the case. The Magistrate, T.N. Aladejana, granted the accused bail in the sum of N1 million and two sureties in like sum, and subsequently adjourned the matter to March 16, 2023, for hearing. 