Senate House (Blue) has won the 32nd International School, University of Lagos’ (ISL) yearly inter-house athletics competition at the school’s sports ground. At a flamboyant event watched by parents, friends and invited guests, Senate House garnered 14 gold, 11 silver and nine bronze medals to dethrone Registry (Red House) as champions. Registry, which had nine gold, five silver and four bronze medals, came second, while Chancellery (Yellow House) with eight gold, two silver and six bronze medals came third. They were followed by Congregation (Purple House) with four gold, 10 silver and five bronze medals, School (Green House) with three gold, seven silver and 11 bronze medals and Bursary (White House) with three gold, six silver and six bronze medals in the fourth, fifth and sixth positions respectively. Senate House won the march past competition by scoring 63 points, while the house’s Ayodele Juwon also won the Best Overall Athlete award in the junior category. Registry’s Mohammed Femisola won the Best Overall Athlete in the senior class, just as the honour for the Best Overall Winning House again went to the Senate. Speaking on the occasion, ISL Principal, Mr. K.O. Amusan, admonished parents to allow their wards to take advantage of what sports offers. “Academics is very good, but we must live a balanced life like the extra-curricular activities sports offer. We have seen sports take people around the world and many live on it.
“Inasmuch as we encourage academics, if you have a child showing interest in sports, that child should be encouraged and supported,” he said. Vice Chancellor of the University of Lagos, Prof. Folasade Ogunsola, represented by Associate Prof. Awoyinfa Joseph, stated that the gathering was to celebrate the children, adding, “we are here to make sure that we make into use the cognitive, the affective and the psychomotor aspect of learning.
“You know, the students are always in the classes, but this is the time to showcase their psychomotor. To use their piled up energy and the potential energy in them. If you do not allow them to exhibit it, that is what takes some students to truancies and gambling. But in the knowledge of academia, we used to dedicate one day for the inter-house sports and that is what the students are doing today,” he said. Also speaking at the event, Prof. Ngozi Osarenren, said: “Today is our 32nd International School Inter-house Sports. This one is 32 years we have been doing inter-house sports and you can see it is very colourful, everyone is happy, because everyone is a winner.” The Chairman of the Day, Captain Abioye Abdulkareem, a pilot, said the event afforded parents opportunity to celebrate their children and be part of their team bonding.
“There is also a need for the schools to also involve corporate bodies by carrying them along as part of their corporate social responsibilities. I think there are a lot of things that I saw here that need to be attended to. But the corporate world wouldn’t know if the schools don’t reach out to them,” he said. 