After about three months of petrol scarcity in Abuja, which triggered long queues at filling stations, normalcy seems to have returned as commuters go about their daily business without the usual gridlock and long hours of waiting to buy fuel. Residents also confirmed to The Guardian that price is now stable at N195 per litre.  Recall that last week, scarcity of petrol was on the high side, this affected the cost of transportation. Black marketers sold the products for an exorbitant price; 10litter was sold at N6, 000. Simone Ademola a driver lamented the situation, saying: “Fuel scarcity is now every month. Sadly, a nation like Nigeria will always suffer from scarcity of fuel. I blame the marketers for this scarcity. I believe they are hoarding it and selling at a higher price to black marketers or top politicians. I thank God things are now better.” A welder, Ejiro Efe, doubts if the change will be sustained. He said: “I will just fill my tank and generator because I know the scarcity will return. How does it fget to the black market?. Who is giving them petroleum product to sell?. They are always on the streets unperturbed and the government is doing nothing to tackle the situation. Another resident Helen Kudu, called on the government to stop punishing the people. “The government is not doing enough to curb fuel scarcity. Elections are near.” Justin Haav, a civil servant, while commending government also called on road transporters to return transportation fare to normal. He said: “I commend the government effort in curbing the scarcity. However, I call on road transporters who have added to transport fares to return them to normal. Before the hike, from Kubwa to Berger was N30 now it is N200. Kubwa to Area I was  N300, now it is N500. Area 2, to Suleja before was N400, now it is N600. These increments have spread to all other parts of Abuja. Ali Nuhu, a black marketer revealed that: “There is no job around. Selling petrol on the road is the only hope of making ends meet. I get petrol from filling stations. Since yesterday sales have been low compared to last week. Many filling stations are now selling fuel within Abuja.” 