is a hard time for Nigerians. We are not only grappling with worsening fuel scarcity but also the scarcity of the redesigned banknotes. Between the two economic crises, I can’t say which is intolerable. With less than ten days to the new deadline given by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) for the use of the old series of N200, N500, and N1000 notes, it is distressing that the new notes seem to be relatively scarce. Worst, some commercial banks are still issuing the old denominations over the counter and through Automated Teller Machines (ATM) despite the CBN’s threat to sanction banks over failure to issue the redesigned naira notes; and although most commercial banks have started issuing the new notes, the outflow remains largely insufficient.
 
From the foregoing, one might likely conclude that the CBN is rationing the distribution of the new naira notes. But this would be absurd as the CBN governor, Godwin Emefiele had earlier insisted that there would be no extension after the initil 31 January deadline in the face of continuous debate on the appropriateness of the rigid timeline and pleas to either extend the deadline or allow for a flexible process that would allow the old naira notes to phase out over time. Given his insistence, Emefiele should intensify efforts to see to the mass production, distribution and circulation of the notes. Surely, rationing the distribution would only constrain circulation. There are controversies as to whether the window given by the apex bank is feasible. Though most Nigerians have expressed optimism that the new notes would be fully in circulation soon, I dare say that such hope is bleak given the outcry in all parts of the country which speaks of frustration with the short timeframe. 31 January was a very ambitious and unrealistic time frame. Many Nigerians are yet to set their eyes on and transact with the redesigned legal tenders. I, myself, have withdrawn from ATMs and point of sale (POS) merchants since the unveiling of the new notes, but I have not had the privilege of being paid with them. The last time I used a POS for a transaction, I inquired from the merchant why I was still being given old notes a few days before the deadline and he replied, “na wetin bank give me, I go give you.” 