The South West Agenda for Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu (SWAGA), has boasted that the All Progressives Congress (APC), Presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu would win with landslide in more than 24 states in February 25 election. SWAGA National Chairman, Prince Dayo Adeyeye, who stated this at the flag-off of the door-to-door campaign for the APC presidential candidate in Ado-Ekiti, yesterday added that Tinubu would come second in the states he would not win. He said: “By my analysis and calculation, he will win the poll. I have traversed the length and breadth of this country in the course of this campaign, and I have contacts all over the place, I am very optimistic that Asiwaju will win over 24 states, and the other ones where he is not winning outright, he will come second with over 25 per cent.” Senator Adeyeye described the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emefiele, as the most controversial governor of CBN, accusing him of trying to crumble the economy. “They decided that they want to do this so that it will affect the prospect of a particular candidate, but the have failed because people are beginning to understand the reason Nigerians are going through this extremely painful period.
“Our message to the people is that they should spread it round from door-to-door that this is an unnecessary pain inflicted on them by a group of people who have decided that they do not want the election of this year to succeed, but they have failed because Nigerians are determined to go ahead with the election.” According to him, Tinubu has proffered his six-point agenda that could help ameliorate the problem, and expressed hope that they will listen and make necessary corrections. In his remarks, the former member of the House of Representatives and son-in-law of the APC flagbearer, Mr Oyetunde Ojo disclosed that two former governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose and Chief Segun Oni are working for Tinubu’s victory. “I am telling you that in a few days time, you will see many people decamping to work for Tinubu. He is a man of last minute surprises. You saw it during the party primary, when we got to the eagle square, you saw how many people that stepped down for him. He is well received by opposition parties.
“Let me take Fayose for example, he has said over and over that he wants Tinubu to be president. I can even tell you that Segun Oni, though in SDP, won’t work against Tinubu. When you have those two titans and others in PDP and SDP, then Tinubu would score 98 percent of the votes in Ekiti. This is not anti-party, it is a national issue,” he argued. He said that if elected, Tinubu would not allow Nigerians to suffer amidst the new naira notes scarcity, adding that changing the currency at this time was unnecessary and unfair.