Download logo The Ministry of Minerals of the United Republic of Tanzania (https://www.Madini.go.Tz/), in collaboration with dmg events and Ocean Business Partners Tanzania is pleased to announce the next edition of the Tanzania Mining & Investment Forum that will be hosted in Dar Es Salaam from 25th – 26th October 2023 at the Julius Nyerere International Convention Centre. The Forum is proudly held under the Patronage of Honourable Dr. Doto Mashaka Biteko (MP), Minister for Minerals, with government representation at the highest level.  Over the last decade, East Africa has been experiencing a rapid expansion in its mineral sector. In Tanzania, the mining sector's contribution to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) has been increasing yearly. In the year 2020/2021 the mineral sector contribution to GDP rose to 7.2% from 6.7% in 2019/2020. Following the notable development, the sector became the economy’s leading foreign exchange earner. Under the leadership of Her Excellency Dr. Samia Suluhu Hassan, President of the United Republic of Tanzania, the government has been focusing on ensuring the mining sector contributes at least 10 percent of the GDP by 2025. Engagement with the international community to mobilize capital and investment in the mining sector is prerequisite to materializing this ambition. The Tanzania Mining & Investment Forum 2023 theme ‘Unlocking Tanzania’s Future Mining Potential’ will once again connect the Tanzanian, African, and global mining community with global Ministers, CEOs, policymakers and industry leaders in Dar Es Salaam to meet in person and discuss cooperation strategies to unlock and advance the opportunities for development in this vital sector. The Forum is expected to attract over 2,000 global attendees from over 25 countries, will include a world-class conference with over 100 speakers, with more than 20 sessions, keynote addresses and presentations which will run alongside a large-scale technology and innovation exhibition. This year’s Forum will have a strong focus on global mining investments, including new projects and partnerships, technologies, regulations and financing. In addition, new topical subjects such as environmental, social and governance policies, strategic mineral developments, sustainable mining, and local content will also be at the centre of the discussion. On announcement of the 2023 Forum, Hon. Dr. Doto Biteko (MP), Minister for Minerals, said, “I’m inviting all mining stakeholders in Tanzania, from across Africa, and around the globe to participate in the Tanzania Mining & Investment Forum. We look forward to making ground-breaking announcements, hosting bilateral and investor meetings, showcasing project development opportunities and working with our national and global partners to unlock the full potential of Tanzania’s mining sector. We look forward to meeting you in Dar Es Salaam as Tanzania is now placed in the high ranking African groups in attracting foreign direct investment.” Over the past three editions the Tanzania Mining & Investment Forum has attracted over 4,500 global attendees with participation from over 15 countries, included a world-class conference alongside a technology showcase exhibition, and the award ceremony for mining companies and individuals who have excelled in various aspects of their activities via the Madini Gala Night. The Forum has become one of the largest events held in the country. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of The Ministry of Minerals of the United Republic of Tanzania. For speaking enquiries, sponsorship, exhibiting and attendee registration of the Tanzania Mining & Investment Forum 2023, please contact: 
Danai Davatzis, Marketing Manager, danaidavatzis@dmgevents.com; or  visit www.TanzaniaMiningInvestmentForum.com for more details of the forum; or  follow us on social media on LinkedIn (https://apo-opa.info/40OgHlH), Facebook (https://apo-opa.info/3jMYxQL), Twitter (https://apo-opa.info/3RRAQmE), Instagram (https://apo-opa.info/3RSDx7v) and use #TanzaniaMiningForum for the latest information including regular updates on the forum For more information about dmg Events and Ocean Business Partners Tanzania Ltd on organizing global events learn more at www.dmgevents.com and www.OBP-Tanzania.co.Tz About dmg events:
dmg events is one of the leading global event organisers, with 84 events across several key industries, attracting over 425,000 attendees. Its energy portfolio includes some of the biggest events in the sector, such ADIPEC, the Egypt Petroleum Show, World Utilities Congress, and the Global Energy Show.  Find out more at www.dmgevents.com. Click here (https://apo-opa.info/3Xoykpo)  to read our privacy policy. About Ocean Business Partners Tanzania:
Ocean Business Partners Tanzania is an indigenous and leading cross border advisory Consultancy firm focusing on expertise in various business disciplines from Oil, Gas, Energy, Logistics, Investment Advisory, Business Consultancy, Risk Consultancy, Project Engineering and Finance facilitating to name a few. The Ocean Business Partners Tanzania takes pride in supporting its wide range of clients right from the foundation stage of developing new project ideas, to the implementation, and releasing of their products or services into the Oil, Gas and Energy market. We aim to create personalized business plans for our clients that are well thought by our team of consultants who take immense pride in their practical experience in the Oil & Gas Industry and other related fields. We believe in collaboratively finding solutions to any individual task, and working together as a team with our clients. Learn more at: www.OBP-Tanzania.co.Tz