The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kano has agreed to host its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, at a rally in the ancient city next Thursday, February 9. Briefing journalists, yesterday, Chairman, PDP Publicity Committee for the visit, Dr. Sule Yau Sule, disclosed that the event would “clearly define the physical fitness” of the Waziri of Adamawa. He said the occasion would see the flag-bearer physically presenting his manifesto to residents and “not showcasing any dancing skill.” His words: “Kano has hosted several presidential candidates, some were seen shaking, while some cannot even see properly. We are pleased to inform you that Atiku is coming. He is coming to Kano for a political campaign rally. “We can assure you that everything is set to host the PDP presidential candidate and Waziri of Adamawa. Now, Atiku is coming to Kano to sell his presidential ambition and canvass for vote from the good people of Kano, hence, Atiku is not coming to dance.” Sule, who is also spokesperson of Senator representing Kano Central and former Governor of Kano State, Ibrahim Shekarau, revealed that Atiku would also commission some legacy projects of his principal. MEANWHILE, the Senator representing Kogi West, Smart Adeyemi, yesterday, in a rare cross-country mobilisation of support for All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, his running mate, Senator Kashim Shettima and other standard-bearers, stormed Minna, the Niger State capital. The three-term lawmaker and Chairman, Senate Committee on Federal Capital Territory (FCT), was in Minna for an interactive session with Kogi indigenes resident in the neighbouring North Central state, where he rolled out a multi-million naira empowerment initiative for the people. Over 1000 Kogi indigenes resident in Niger benefited from the empowerment of the Kogi senator, which included cars, deep freezers, grinding machines, sewing machines etcetera, shared across the tribes – Ebira, Okun and Igala. The gathering was attended by top government functionaries, heads of agencies, party chieftains, community leaders, youth and women associations and social and interest groups of Kogi extraction. Addressing the indigenes, Adeyemi said his visit was to seek support for Tinubu, Shettima and other APC candidates in Niger State. He stated that Tinubu and Shettima remain the best combination to move Nigeria to “another level of progress, development and prosperity.” HE, however, urged the ex-Vice President Abubakar to apologise to Nigerians over sale of national assets, stating that the privitasation programme he masterminded allegedly “gave birth to poverty and insecurity.” “Atiku should apologise to Nigerians because under his watch as Vice President to (President) Olusegun Obasanjo, the (defunct) Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN) was sold at $16 billion and yet we don’t see power for 24 hours,” he claimed. 