SIR: Political statements are not new. It falls within the framework of free speech. More importantly, it is one of the means by which politicians reach out to the electorates and boost their chance of winning an election. Hence, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege is calling on all citizens and residents of Isiokolo community and indeed all Agbon sons and daughters to support and vote him, Omo-Agege, for governor of Delta State in the 2023 gubernatorial election. Omo-Agege is the only candidate in the governorship race with a concrete record of performance, capacity and experience to rescue Delta State from years of socio-economic decay perpetuated by the PDP and Okowa administration. The PDP and the Okowa administration have failed in Delta State and Ethiope East Local Council. The council headquarters at Isiokolo, has been ignored by successive PDP administrations. The Okowa administration neglected the upgrading of the Agbon Teachers College to a College of Education. A College of Education at Isiokolo would have put Agbon Kingdom on the world map and spur economic activities that should have created employment for our people.       Isiokolo community and Agbon Kingdom lost a great economic and educational development advantage when the Teacher’s Training College at Isiokolo was downgraded and abandoned by the PDP-led government. Today, our communities including Isiokolo, lack basic socio-economic institutions lack functioning banks, hospitals, electricity, and markets to support serious economic activities and facilitate innovation for our youths, women and deserving citizens. This may not have been the case if the Teacher’s Training College at Isiokolo was not downgraded.   The PDP’s governorship candidate, Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori and Omo-Agege, are not comparable under any index of performance, education, exposure, public service or capacity to govern and deliver the necessary socio-economic agenda for the good of Delta State. A champion of economic development evident in a lifetime of public service, Omo-Agege’s candidacy is a beacon of hope and offers the best opportunity for the economic revolution of Agbon Kingdom and Delta State in general. Omo-Agege’s agenda is attractive to foreign investments and Deltans in the Diaspora who account for more than 20 per cent of diaspora remittances amounting to billions of dollars and are willing to partner with Omo-Agege to contribute to the development of the state because of the credibility and performance of Omo-Agege as a senator representing Delta Central at the National Assembly. His manifesto immensely underscores his passion and the promise of a new Delta anchored on creating employment, development, good governance and enduring security built by the people, for the people. 
Dr Felix O. Okpe, is a U.S. based professor, lawyer and  leader, Delta State Diaspora Support Group, USA. 