The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), says it has intercepted a consignment of 1,340 kilogrammes of cannabis sativa being conveyed from Ogbese in Ondo state to Odukpani in Cross River. The Director, Media and Advocacy, NDLEA, Mr Femi Babafemi, disclosed this on Sunday in a statement issued in Abuja. He said that the items were loaded in a truck belonging to the Liquified Natural Gas (LNG) and heading to Okurikang Okoyong in Odukpani Local Government Area of Cross River. Babafemi said that following credible intelligence, the movement was monitored for three weeks and upon arrival, 130 bags of cannabis were seized. The seized drugs, weighed 1.430 tons and were recovered from the LNG truck and 13 motorcycles which were hired by the cartel to convey the consignment deep into the Odukpani forest, were impounded. Babafemi also said that in Kano, four suspects: Ado Shuaibu; Yahaya Shuaibu; Mamman Sani and Umar Musa Yakubu were arrested in connection with 229 blocks of skunk weighing 131.1kgs. He said that Musa was arrested on Tuesday, Feb. 7, at Tumfafi village, Kano, while Ado, Yahaya and Mamman were nabbed on Saturday, Feb. 11, at Garin Balarabe, Maigatari, Jigawa state. “Another suspect, Aisha Muhammad, was arrested in Koki area of Kano with 17kgs cannabis,” he said. According to him, no fewer than four members of a syndicate using dispatch motorcycles to distribute illicit drugs in Lekki area of Lagos were arrested on Sunday, Feb. 5. “They include: Tijani Hakeem; Eric Maku; Ahmed Jubril and Adobi Chris. “At the time of their arrest, 1.88kgs of Loud and assorted paraphernalia were recovered from them,” he said. Babafemi quoted the NDLEA Chairman, Retired, Brig.-Gen. Buba Marwa, as commending the officers, men and women for their commitment and professionalism towards ridding Nigeria of the menace of illicit drugs. Marwa said the agency would continue to target any one or group involved in the criminal trade without fear or favour. He urged all NDLEA officers across the country to remain unrelenting in the pursuit of the corporate goal.