The Labour Party House of Representatives candidate in Amuwo Odofin Otunba George Folarin Olawande Adegeye has promised qualitative representation if elected a Reps member come the 25th February general election. Folarin made the pledge on Saturday at his electioneering campaign rally across Amuwo-Odofin locality, he added that his pact with the people remained intact just as he has done with much commitment before he chose to vie for the seat. According to the young but vibrant Adegeye having been raised within the locality and turned out quite great, it is incumbent on him to put his mind to ensuring a greater Amuwo-Odofin Federal constituency. The House of Reps hopeful said: “I can assure you that you won’t regret it, vote Peter  Obi for president, Folarin Adegeye for the Federal House of Representatives, vote Labour party, Labour!, Labour!!, Labour!!! All the way. “They have done it before they failed the first time, second time and third time let’s try another party. “I was raised on this Mile 2 Estate, so my antecedents are well known to many here, unlike those who really had no root here, ask them where exactly their parent’s house is located here in Amuwo-Odofin or Oriade? They cannot point to any particular location. “Tell them no, to somebody from America, Ikorodu and now Amuwo-Odofin, are we fools? No we are not. “My mother late Hon Risikat Ajoke Adegeye while in the House of Assembly till the year 2007 lifted a lot of people from their lowest ebb to a better state, so it is somewhat innate in me to ensure the welfare of the people. “I run a business outfit where I have 125 staff strength, it is doing great, so my venturing into politics is not for pecuniary reasons, but a will to serve. “I lost my mother in 2020, you all know how passionate she was about Amuwo-Odofin’s development. “Your security is assured they can’t do nothing, we are fully on the ground, tell them we are taking over Amuwo-Odofin,” Folarin reiterates. Many of the crowd of supporters who were never deterred by the scorching sun, stood by the brand for his style of revolutionary politics, they could not hide their view about Omogeye’s personality and charismatic carriage. Feeling the pulse of the teeming youths who thronged the campaign rally, Omo Geye as he is fondly called truly has a great followership amongst the   Amuwo-Odofin electorates. Some of them while on the rally said, “He is a brand we so much identify with and surely he will win the Federal House of Representatives election.” Reacting to the massive turnout witnessed all through the rally, the Head of Omogeye’s 2023 campaign organisation’s Media and Strategic Communications Bureau Ambassador Kingsley Nwanze have this to say. “Amongst all other contenders, he stands out because ever since the days of his late mum he has been sold out to humanity on every sphere. He is a candidate we are sure to deliver  by the special grace of God.” “You can just imagine like it were a Governor leading the rally all the while, see the vehicular chain and crowd of those making the trek. “It is awesome that is the least I can say, no other candidate of any party has been able to sustain this tempo in recent times, this is a testimonial that Omogeye is greatly loved by the people.” The mega rally campaign train moved all the way from Eko Akete junction by Second Rainbow which was the convergence point towards Agidimo, Alaba Express, Fatgbems,Mile 2 Estate, Aroso Market, MamaJay, Shoprite junction, Apple Junction, Lakeview by Ago Bridge, down to AP Junction,31 Road,32 Road,22 Road,23 Road, Stop Over 23 Road Market,4th Avenue, Stop Over 6th Avenue Bridge, Stop over 11 Junction and then moved back to the Eko Akete Junction from where the rally commenced initially. Many loyalists of OmoGeye within the area trekked all through the long distance, even the aged as the candidate distributed lots of quality souvenirs like branded school bags and notebooks, potable bags of rice and more.