*It facilitates capital retention, says facility boss, Odozor The Federal Government has disclosed that its involvement in the newly commissioned Diplomatic Village in Abuja, was borne out of the need to reciprocate similar gestures enjoyed by Nigerian missions across the world. A director from the department of Tax Policy, Ministry of Finance, Mr Yakubu Mohammed, who spoke yesterday during a tour of the facility, stated that although it was primarily a private investment, the government was involved by way of an enabling policy in line with the provisions of Vienna Convention. The federal government earlier in the week, commissioned a Diplomatic Village, a structure comprising both health and social facilities, including a duty-free shop, specifically for foreign missions in Nigeria. According to Mohammed, the idea came from the Managing Director, Chief Executive Officer, of Diplomatic Village, Mr Uche Odozor, it was easily embraced by the federal government as it was a global best practice. He said: “There are two issues that are involved here – a private investment and government policy. The idea came from Mr Odozor and it was sold to the government and we saw that it was a global practice. “Government got involved because all the countries that adopted the Vienna Convention operate the tax-free shop. This is what diplomats from Nigeria enjoy and we need to comply and reciprocate. “This is an attempt by Nigeria to adhere to what other counties are doing and to also make it appear that we are reciprocating to diplomats who are here, what ours enjoy outside the shores of Nigeria.” In his remarks, Odozor said the essence of the village was to further grow the economy through capital retention by providing world-class facilities, not only for diplomats but also Nigerians. He however said it was so named because there are certain privileges dedicated to diplomats alone, such as the duty-free shop. According to him, five government agencies came together in 2011 to support the project. The Diplomatic Village is a structure at the city centre, housing a duty-free shop, spa, diplomatic clinic, dining hall, visual art gallery and a Liquid Hub, a large-size bar accommodating assorted wines from across the world. The spa session on the last floor of the building, with state-of-the-art equipment, has 12 treatment rooms dedicated to it. Going through the Diplomatic Clinic, the M.D said it was designed to provide quality health care to diplomats within the country. There are also departments for eye and dental care. He said: “Diplomats no longer have to take their money away. We can make it happen here. The purpose is to meet the needs of diplomats.” The clinic is equipped with multiple ranges of specialities but there is no provision for in-patients. It also has a world-class laboratory which the MD said can take care of all manner of ailments. He added that results from the lab can be trusted and be compared with others anywhere in the world. “We are not God but we do our best. Our results are comparable anywhere in the world in terms of outcome. The essence is to grow our economy”, said the doctor in charge, Dr. Chuma Igbokwe. At the entrance of the building is an art gallery where different arts and crafts, mostly from Internally Displaced Persons across the country are exhibited. The essence of patronizing them, Odozor said, was to enhance their living standard. “We feel the need to support people who are displaced as a lot of them are talented. We reached out to them to paint their stories so we could display them, sell and remit the proceeds to them without any intention to make a profit from the sales. The response so far has been incredible”, Adozor said. Above all, the interior of the structure was decorated with materials sourced and fabricated locally. Speaking about the security of the village, the M.D. said: “This place is very well secured. All the relevant agencies are here and keep watch of what happens here. Anywhere you find diplomats, it becomes a soft target for miscreants. As such, from the entrance down into this place is very well secured. The special squadron from 44 Unit, which is the diplomat mobile police unit is stationed here in a very large number. “We are water-tight secured and have no intentions to let our guards down. There are various committees in the implementation of all this and there is a security department within. The government has done the needful security wise and we are happy.” Further on the economic impact of the village, Odozor noted that “Nigeria is a signatory to Vienna Convention of 1961, which provides for a duty-free and tax-free shopping to all diplomats and Common Wealth nations in countries where they serve. All the personal products that a diplomat is exposed to in this country are not to be taxed. It is a policy document, which Nigeria domesticated in 1962.” Adding: “It has a huge economic benefit. Before now, diplomats were bringing in items for their consumption into this country and we have the largest contingent of diplomats in the continent, which meant we incurred losses. We benefit as a country from capital retention as diplomats stay and spend in the country.”