As the Presidential and National Assembly elections get underway, the Nigerian Civil Society Situation Room has berated the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) over the late deployment of election materials across the country. Presenting the group interim statement on the election, Saturday in Abuja, Situation room Convener, Ene Obi said reports from a network of observers and partners revealed that the process commenced late in less than 30 percent of polling units across the country. She said: “States, where polls opened around 8.30 am, include Bauchi, Borno, Cross River, Delta, Ekiti, Gombe and Jigawa. However, in Enugu, Anambra, Imo, Abia, Ebonyi, Rivers, Kaduna and FCT, there have been significant delays in the commencement of polls, with many polling units yet to open as of 11.30 am. “In most states, deployment of election officials and materials to the RACs commenced early hours of this morning, making it extremely difficult for the election to commence on time. “In some states, many ad hoc staff could not find their names on the staff list, even after participating in the training exercise, causing further delays. There were reports of the deployment of election materials to the wrong polling units in parts of the North West and North East states. Obi said the room was hopeful that INEC and other election stakeholders will resolve existing and emerging challenges relating to the deployment of electoral officials and materials, prompt commencement of polls, and accreditation and voting and called on voters to eschew violence and be law abiding as they perform their civic duty. According to the Convener, the body is concerned about the tendency to use violence to intimidate opposition and suppress voters, as was observed in Kogi and Rivers States. “Specifically, In Anyigba ward of Dekina LGA of Kogi State, thugs are reportedly going around destroying election materials and dispersing voters. The Situation Room calls on security agencies to intervene and arrest the escalating violence.” She said. Disclosing that the situation room received reports indicating attempts by political actors to engage in vote buying, Obi commended the security agencies for the swift action they took by apprehending suspected perpetrators of vote buying. She called for a thorough investigation of the cases and advocated for more vigilance against those who may still be harbouring such intentions. “The Situation Room urges INEC to take note of the observed challenges and implement swift measures to ensure that all eligible voters are given the opportunity to vote and that the voting process proceeds without further delays. “Situation Room calls on the security agencies to take measures to curb the escalating violence as observed across the country. Election observers, the media and the general public should continue to be vigilant and report incidents to the Situation Room using the contact details.” She added.