Speaker of Lagos State House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa, yesterday, stressed the need for Lagosians to continue to strengthen their oneness by constantly uniting irrespective of tribes, education background, social status and exposures.  He said: “Over the past century, Agege town has grown from an ancestral settlement to a cosmopolitan community, attracting settlers from within and outside the country. It now has an estimated population standing at over a million people. “In the course of its growth, Agege has had its fair share of the general challenges that have affected the various sectors of our country. Be that as it may, we are happy that Agege is a major beneficiary of the dividends of democracy in Lagos with infrastructure dotting the length and breath of the entire town. Today, we have heard people describing the area as a small London. But that is not, however, to say we are content is not wholly true. We will continue to demand more and more and do more for the growth and progress of this town.”
  
He added that, beyond the celebration, Agege Day is a platform for networking among the youth, business tycoons and market people just as it is an added opportunity for financial empowerment for the less privileged. 
  
“No doubt, today’s event would forever serve as a reference point and remain indelible in our minds as we imprint our footprints in the sands of time. The launch of the Agege Educational Endowment Fund shows renewed hope and future to our youth in their educational pursuit, and this gives us the confidence of brighter days ahead for our children in this great state.
  
“We are determined to entrench an enduring crime-free and educational legacy that would bring uncommon progress to us in all areas of our socio-economic development. As your representative in government, I am standing before you to reaffirm that I would continue to make Agege my first. I will give all it takes to coast home every developmental opportunity for our advancement. As the Speaker, I reassure you all that I shall continue to take Agege to enviable heights.”