… says they turned the country into personal estate The Peter Obi Support Network (POSN), on Wednesday, urged Nigerians to reject the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressive Congress (APC), saying they have turned Nigeria into a personal estate. The group urged Nigerians to come out en masse to vote for Peter Obi this weekend, adding that Obi is the pathway to the nation’s promised land. Co-convener of the POSN, Tochukwu Ezeoke, stated this in Abuja, at the pre-conference with the theme: “Advancing Governance: Election Projections & Outlook For Nigeria in 2023 and Beyond.”
He said the group has printed and distributed over two million campaign materials for sensitisation and mobilisation across the country. He said that Nigerians should not vote for someone that will supervise the “burial of the nation” which is already in an “intensive care unit” under President Muhammadu Buhari. He said: “Our decision to support Peter Obi is out of the realisation that the ruling party and main opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), do not care about the insecurity and poverty that has bedevilled our nation. “All the APC and PDP care about is to enrich themselves, their families, and their cronies. They have turned Nigeria into a personal estate where they can do whatever they like with the lives of over 200 million Nigerians without any consequence. “A vote for Peter Obi is a vote for prosperity, a vote for security, a vote for employment, a vote for good governance, a vote for good roads, a vote for the quality educational system, a vote for quality health facilities, a vote against nepotism and a vote to destroy the structures of corruption in the country. “We are proud to announce that the Obedient Movement that sprang out of these early efforts has spread like wildfire across the country. We have witnessed growing discontent and the efforts by our decadent political leaders to reinforce ethnic and religious bigotry. “All of us are disillusioned that our country has sadly been turned into a killing field where human lives are no more valuable, a nation that is now rated as the headquarters of poverty despite enormous human and material resources that God has generously bestowed on this nation.” Speaking on the achievement, he noted that POSN has a functional network in all 36 states including FCT, and diaspora chapters functioning in over 15 countries abroad and recruited and submitted about 50,000 thousand Polling Unit Monitors for the 2023 elections. “We have also organised three regional conferences in Jos Plateau State, Kaduna, and Asaba, Delta State. We have recruited and trained about 5000 LGA and Ward coordinators on mobilisations and sensitisation operations,” he declared.