With the results of Presidential and National Assembly elections conducted by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) out, it is becoming clear that new faces will dominate the red and green chambers. A lot of the experienced lawmakers, including ranking members, who sought re-election were disappointed, as they lost out to presumed political neophtes. In Ogun, former Governor Gbenga Daniel, who was at the helms of affairs in the state, between 2003 and 2011, was declared winner of Ogun East. A trained engineer and business mogul turned politician, he will replace Senator Olalekan Mustapha, who withdrew during the primary. Daniel, also called OGD by his admirers, is going to the senate as a green horn. He recorded a landslide victory with 115,147 votes to defeat the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Labour Party (LP) candidates, who polled 58,708 and 13,061 votes respectively. Daniel will have to lean on the shoulders of a ranking senator, Olamilekan Adeola, who won election to represent Ogun West Senatorial District. Adeola scored 112,887 to defeat his closest rival, Ganiyu Obanibasiri, of PDP, who scored 60,189 votes. Adeola is replacing Senator Tolu Odebiyi, who is the governorship candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in March 11 election. Shuaib Afolabi Salis won in Ogun Central. Salis is the former Chief of Staff to the state governor. He will be replacing the incumbent Sen. Ibikunle Amosun at the red chamber. Also, Prince Gboyega Nasir Isiaka (GNI) will lead the pack of new comers to the House of Representatives. Ogun has nine House of Representatives seats. Isiaka, a first class accounting graduate of University of Ife (now Obafemi Awolowo University) and three-time governorship candidate in the state, won the Egbado North and Imeko-Afon Federal Constituency election. Isiaka had contested on the platform of the Peoples Party of Nigeria (PPN) in 2011, PDP in 2015 and African Democratic Congress (ADC) in 2019. Adegbesan Joseph of the APC won the ticket to represent Ijebu-North/East/Ogun Waterside Federal Constituency. He defeated the current Deputy Minority Whip, Segun Adekoya of the PDP. The Returning Officer, Adeyemi Bamgbose said, Adekoya polled 25,450, votes while the APC candidate garnered 35,708 votes. The House of Representatives member representing Remo-North Federal Constituency on the platform of APC, Mrs. Adewunmi Oriyomi Onanuga, won the election. She polled 32,686 votes, defeating Bola Oluwole of the PDP, who scored 24,658 votes, and Damilare Michael George of LP who polled 8,111 votes. In the Egbado-South/Ipokia Federal Constituency, APC candidate, Abiodun Akinlade, was declared winner of the election. The Returning Officer, Prof. Ola Jacob, said Akinlade polled 26, 171 to defeat the PDP candidate who polled 22,573 votes. In Abeokuta South Federal Constituency, Afolabi Afuape of the APC was victorious, polling 19,891 to beat Toyin Amuzu of PDP, who scored 13,663. Afuape was a Commissioner of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs in the state. In Ekiti State, five elected candidates into the NASS are going into the House for the first time. There are three Senate seats and six House of Representatives for Ekiti, out of which one Senate candidate representing Ekiti North, is new, while the other two are returning either as senator or member of the House of Representatives. APC candidate, Cyril Fasuyi, polled 54, 224 to defeat his PDP challenger, Funso Ayeni, who scored 39,976. Fasuyi, a businessman was the Director General of the Biodun Oyebanji governorship campaign, being a new entrant to the upper legislative chamber, he would be learning the rope of legislative process. Four candidates who won election to the House of Representatives are also new to the legislative business, while two others, including Femi Bamisile representing Ekiti South 2, as well as Olusola Fatoba, representing Ekiti Central 1, are returning to the green chamber. The candidate representing Ekiti North Federal constituency 1, Rotimi Akintunde, polled 25,517 to defeat his closest rival, Daramola Abimbola, who scored 14,542 Akintunde was a Nollywood actor and the former SSA Communication to the immediate past governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi. He would be going to National Assembly as a green horn, hoping to learn the art of legislation fast. The candidate for the Ekiti Central 1, Omoleye Abiodun, who scored 29,296 to defeat the PDP challenger who was a former media aide to ex-governor, Ayodele Fayose, Mr Lere Olayinka, who scored 11, 504. Omoleye was former caretaker Chairman of Ijero Council and the Chief of Staff to Fayemi. He would be relying on his experience in government to provide the desired legislation. The APC candidate for Ekiti North 2, Kolawole Akinlayo, scored 23,701. He defeated his PDP challenger, Ajayi Babatunde, who scored 20,186. Akinlayo is an oil magnate and private businessman. He has no legislative experience. The candidate of the APC for Ekiti South, Air Vice Marshall (AVM), Ojuawo Rufus, defeated the closest challenger, Akomolafe Heinrich, by 30,699 to 19, 699. Ojuawo, a retired AVM, is an aviation expert, who supervised the construction of the Ekiti International Cargo Airport that is expected to bring his experience to bear in the relevant standing committees of the House of Representatives.
In the Southeast, the exercise has, however, conferred new political status on the zone, as it produced green horns. Outcome of the exercise clearly showed that a vote of no confidence was passed on several old politicians in the region including serving governors, senators and House of Representative members, who wanted to renew their mandate by either retaining their seat or moving to the red chambers. Some of those, who would not forget the 2023 exercise in a hurry, include the incumbent governor of Enugu State, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, whose tenure expires in May 29, this year. He wanted to climb to the senate to represent the Enugu North senatorial zone. His dream was, however, botched as another old war horse, Okey Ezea, handed him a defeat in the contest. The governor will go down in history as among the incumbent who could not win their election.
Also affected is the current member representing Enugu North/South Federal Constituency, Offor Chukwuegbo, who was defeated by a green horn, Cornelius Nnaji of Enugu East/Isiuzo Federal Constituency. Outcome of the exercise showed that LP has produced a new crop of politicians for the next National Assembly. In Enugu, for instance, the party, which roundly won the presidential election, also grabbed a large chunk of seats at the National Assembly. Ezea is a lawyer and business man. He holds a master’s degree in political law from the University of Lagos. He is the Chief Executive Officer, Ideke Shipping Company. He joined politics in 2003, and ran for governorship in 2003 and 2007 in Enugu State. He hails from Igbo Eze South in Enugu State. In Enugu West Senatorial zone, the election produced Mr Osita Ngwu as winner. Ngwu, who was running for the first time on the platform of the PDP, beat the member representing Udi/Ezeagu Federal Constituency, Dennis Oguerinwa. Oguerinwa belongs to the LP. Ngwu, secured 52,473 votes to beat Amadi, who garnered 48,053 votes. Ngwu, popularly called RG, is an engineer and businessman, whose career progression has taken him through both the private and public sectors. He holds a bachelor’s degree from the Enugu State University of Science and Technology and Master’s Degree from the Business School of London. In 2018, he purchased the form to contest on the platform of the PDP to represent Udi/Ezeagu in the House of Representatives. He, however, stepped down on compassionate grounds for the incumbent member, Dennis Amadi. Thereafter, he proceeded to offer his help towards the progress of the PDP in Enugu state. For the House of Representative seats, the new entrants include Sunday Cyriacus Umeha, a lawyer. He hails from Akama Oghe in Ezeagu Council of Enugu State. A British trained Professor, Sunday Nnamchi, is going to the House of Representatives for the first time having defeated the incumbent, Cornelius Nnaji for Enugu East/Isiuzo Federal Constituency. Nnamchi is of the LP. He hails from Isiuzo in Enugu State. Also on the list is Stainless Nwodo, another green horn from Ukeke in Igboetiti council. Nwodo won the seat for Igboetiti/ Uzouwani Federal Constituency. Chimaobi Atu, who won the election to represent Enugu North/South Federal Constituency, is a businessman. The LP House of Reps member elect is contesting election for the first time. He hails from Ugwuaji in Enugu South council. Chidi Obetta of the LP won the seat for Nsukka/Igboeze South is another green horn from the state. Obetta is an hotelier in Nsukka. He has been around politics and supported his former party the PDP, before defecting to LP to contest the election that he won. IN Ebonyi State, a former chairman of the PDP, who jettisoned the party for APC, Onyekachi Nwebonyi is among the new entrants to the senate. Nwoebonyi beat former governor and incumbent senator, Sam Egwu to the Ebonyi North senatorial seat. Egwu is the candidate of the PDP. In the House of Representatives, Nkemka Kama from the APC is among the first timers. He will represent the Ohanivo Constituency. The rest are Emmanuel Uguru for Abakaliki/Izzi Federal Constituency and Pastor Eze Nwachukwu for Ohaukwu/Ebonyi Federal Constituency. IN Abia State, Darlington Nwokocha, Reps member for Isiala Ngwa North/Isiala Ngwa South Federal Constituency won the election for Abia Central Senatorial constituency. Nwokocha, who is of the LP, defeated his closet rival, Austin Akobundu. Nwokocha will be replacing former governor, Theodore Orji, who had long announced his retirement from active politics after completing his current tenure in office. Also Amobi Ogar of the LP is another new entrant in the House of Representatives. Ogar who defeated incumbent, Nkiru Onyeaguocha, will be representing the Isikuwuato/Umunneochi Federal Constituency. Obi Aguocha of the LP is also a new entrant. The member-elect, who polled 48,199 votes to beat current Speaker of Abia State, Chinedum Orji will be representing the Ikwuano/Umuahia Federal Constituency. In Anambra State, Tony Nwoye, a former House of Reps member, is heading for the senate for the first time to represent Anambra North constituency after defeating incumbent, Stella Oduah of the PDP. Nwoye ran on the platform of the LP.
Meanwhile, PDP’s Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere is also going to the lower chamber for the first time to represent Ideato North and South. Ugochinyere ran on the platform of the PDP. PDP in Kaduna State has recorded high number of legislators-elect, who will be first timer in the Senate and House of representatives in the coming 10th National Assembly. Besides, the party recorded victory in the three senatorial zones in the state, comprising Kaduna North, Kaduna Central and Kaduna South. In Kaduna North, Khalid Sabo will be a green horn in the Senate, with Lawal Adamu Usman (Kaduna Central) and Sunday Marshal Kaltung (Kaduna South). The winner of Zango Kataf-Jaba Federal Constituency, Amos Gwamna, who emerged victorious under the platform of the PDP, is going to be a new comer in the House. The LP candidate, Donatus Mathew, won Kaura Federal Constituency, and Hussain Maikaro of the PDP, who won his election in Kaduna South, will be learning legislative business for the first time in the National Assembly. Also in this category are PDP winner of Sabon Gari constituency, Sadiq Ango Abdullahi and his counterpart in Makarfi-Kudan Federal Constituency, Ajilo Makarfi, are going to be first timers in the green chamber. Meanwhile, Dan Amos of PDP was also declared winner of the National Assembly election for the Jema’a/Sanga Federal Constituency of Kaduna State. The Returning Officer, Prof. Yunusa Umaru, who declared the result in Kafanchan, said Amos polled 32, 578 to defeat his closest rival, Mr Anto Usman of APC, who got 26,793 votes. While in Kauru, the Returning Officer, Prof. Tahir Bayero of Ahmadu Bello University, announced Hon. Bashir Yusuf as the winner for the Kauru Federal House of Representative seat with 19,985 votes to beat his closest challenger, APC candidate, Hon. Mukhtat Zakari Chawai, with 16,811, while LP candidate, Dr. Isaac Zankhai Auta, trailed with 8,426 votes. THREE first timers also won National Assembly seats in Rivers State from the results announced so far. Two of the winners are members of PDP, while one is from APC. Kelechi Nwogu, who won  Etche/Omuma Federal Constituency 1, was a two term member of the  Rivers State House of Assembly.  He is perceived by many as Governor Nyesom Wike’s political son.  As a member of the state House of Assembly, he was outspoken and attracted some projects to his constituency. Another first timer to the NASS, Victor Obuzor, who won Ahoada West/ Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni Federal Constituency, is said to be a grassroots politician, while the Okrika/Ogu/Bolo Federal Constituency seat was clinched by the APC candidate, Allison Anderson. The Rivers East Senatorial District seat was clinched  by Allwell Onyesoh of PDP. IN Oyo State, some of the new faces that will go to the National Assembly include, Sharafadeen Ali, a lawyer the APC senator-elect for Oyo South, Yinus Akintunde, APC senator-elect for Oyo Central. Others are Olamijuwinlo Alao-Akala, APC House of Representatives elect for Ogbomoso North/South Orire Federal Constituency, Remi Oseni, APC House of Representatives elect for Ido Ibarapa East Federal Constituency and Adefisoye Lafioye, APC House of Representatives elect for Akinyele Lagelu Federal Constituency. The outcome of the National Assembly election conducted in Osun State did not only spring surprises, but threw up many politicians that will be learning legislative business for the first time. Fadeyi Oluwole Olubiyi is one of the three newly elected Senatorial candidates in the state under the platform of the PDP. He polled 134,229 to defeat the incumbent Senator Ajibola Basiru of the APC. Olubiyi is not a green horn in Osun politics. In 2019 general elections, he was the candidate of the Action Democratic Congress (ADC) for Osun Central Senatorial District. He defected to PDP and clinched the senatorial ticket under the ruling party in the state. He is a strategic partner to the Economic European Development Council, Partner to European Market Research Centre, Energy Partner to Europower, Sport Betting Partner to Luckia Gaming SA and Infrastructure Development partner to China Harbour. He is an alumnus of Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, London School of Economics (LSE) and Harvard Business School (HBS) and Harvard Kennedy School of Government (HKS). Also, Oyewumi Kamarudeen Olalere of the PDP won with 138,476 votes for Osun West Senatorial District. He defeated Dr. Amidu Tadese of the APC. He is an alumnus of Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife. He was an employee of the Federal Civil Service of the Ministry of Education as an Education Officer before he retired and joined politics in 1992. Also, five out of the nine winners of the election to the House of Representatives are first timers. Akanni Clement Ademola, who won the Boluwaduro/Ifedayo/Ila Federal Constituency with 26,242 votes, defeated APC’s Adebisi Obawale. Ademola was a member of the Osun State House of Assembly, representing Ila State Constituency under the platform of the APC before he defected to PDP in 2018. Olusoji Adetunji of the PDP got 41389 votes to win Odo Otin/Ifelodun/Boripe Federal Constituency seat. He defeated Moshood Oluawo of APC who got 35911. Adetunji had contested the seat in 2019 general elections but lost to APC. Lanre Omoleye of the PDP won the seat of Ayedaade/Irewole/Isokan Federal Constituency with 39,124 votes, defeating the incumbent lawmaker representing the Constituency, Taiwo Oluga of APC who got 37832. Lukman Alani of the PDP won Ayedire/Iwo/Ola-Oluwa Federal Constituency seat, having polled 35,678 to defeat the incumbent lawmaker representing the Constituency, Yinusa Amobi of the APC, who got 31,255. He contested the seat in 2019 general elections but lost to APC. Morufu Adebayo of the PDP won with 71,677 votes and clinched the Irepodun/Olorunda/Osogbo/Orolu Federal Constituency seat. He defeated Abosede Kasumu of the APC, who got 58992 votes. Adebayo had contested and lost the seat at the 2019 general elections. He is a business tycoon and the Chairman of Gangaria Herbal Mixture company. IN Nassarawa State, APC National Chairman, Sen. Abdullahi Adamu (Nassarawa West senatorial zone) and Umaru Al-Makura (Nassarawa South senatorial zone) have lost their senatorial seats to opposition parties. While Adamu lost to Hon Wadada Aliyu of SDP, Almakura lost his seat to Hon Onawo Ogoshi of the PDP. Bauchi State will also have many green horns in the National Assembly, who will learn the art of lawmaking in the National Assembly.
Dr. Samaila Dahuwa (PDP), a former Chairman Bauchi State Hospital Management Board and ex-Commissioner of Health will be representing Bauchi North senatorial district. He defeated APC contestant, Ibrahim Sirajo Tanko to claim the seat of the incumbent Senator Adamu Bulkachuwa, who did not contest seat again. For the House of Representatives, Jafar Gambo Lekko (APC) will be representing Dass/Tafawa Balewa/Bogoro Federal Constituency: The 46 years old Lekko of APC has been announced to replace the former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara who is serving his fourth term at the lower chamber. He defeated Kefas Magaji of the PDP. The APC candidate polled 54,128 votes to defeat Kefas of PDP who scored 52,314 votes. Lekko was endorsed by Dogara a few days before the election. For Alkaleri/Kirfi Federal Constituency, Kabiru Yusuf (APC) was the winner of the election conducted on Saturday Kabiru Yusuf, also known as AKY Makama is an oil and gas businessman who owns many fuel stations in the State. He won the seat under the platform of APC. He defeated his top contender, Umar Dewu, a member of the State House of Assembly. Yusuf polled a total of 32,257 votes to defeat Dewu who got 29,713 votes. Ismail Dabo (APC), another green horn worn election to Toro Federal Constituency against the PDP’s Isa Tilde. Dabo polled 46,691 votes to defeat Isa Tilde of the PDP, who polled 26,737 votes. For Misau/Dambam Federal Constituency, Bappa Aliyu Misau (PDP) is the new Reps member. Aliyu is a former member, Bauchi State House of Assembly between 2003 and 2007 represented Ciroma constituency. He contested against Sabo Bappayo Ahmed of APC, while Ibrahim Sani Tanko (PDP) and Dr. Hashim Ranga (PDP) will also learn the business of legislation for the first time. Ranga, a retired Permanent Secretary Government House, Bauchi was declared winner for the seat after defeating Abdulkadir Abdullahi of APC who is a sitting member of House of Reps. 