The organisers of debates for presidential candidates in the forthcoming polls, under the aegis of Southwest Development Stakeholders’ Forum (SWDSF), yesterday, cancelled the meeting with the presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi. The programme was billed to commence by 10.00a.m, at the Jogor Centre, Ibadan, the Oyo State capital.  After guests and journalists had waited for hours without the arrival of Obi, the organisers announced that the presidential candidate could not make it due to unfavourable security in the city. It would be recalled that there were protests in the city, on Friday, over the paucity of new naira notes and fuel. Hence, the debate was cancelled to forestall untoward happening arising from unfavourable security reports. The Chairman of the SWDSF, Dr. Adedayo Alao, who disclosed this to journalists, said new date would be announced for the event. Alao said: ‘’As a result of what is currently happening in the town and due to security reports on scarcity of fuel and new naira notes, the security operatives said it might escalate if Obi comes around. That is why we are canceling the debate. We don’t want something to happen to Obi. We don’t want to be labeled as the group that invited Obi.  When the security situation is favourable, Obi will come around and all of you will still be invited.” Also speaking, the Oyo State Coordinator of Big Tent being championed by Pat Utomi, Princess Oyeronke Akinlolu lamented the development. She said: “His Excellency was supposed to be here and we have been waiting and those who were at the airport said he landed, he was supposed to come down, adding: “perhaps the situation was not favourable, saying, “Personally, I am not happy about the cancellation.” Recall that the Forum had hosted the presidential candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar; New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP), Rabiu Kwankwanso; People’s Redemption Party (PRP), Kola Abiola; Omoyele Sowore of the Africa Action Congress {AAC}, and Adewole Adebayo of the Social Democratic Party (SDP). 