Teenage Spelling Bee winner to be firm’s one-Day CEO today MTN has received a backing from the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) to disconnect some Value Added Service (VAS) operators over their failure to pay up their interconnect debts. 
According to a public notice sighted by The Guardian on Monday, titled: Pre-Disconnection Notice Made Pursuant to the Nigerian Communications Act, 2003 and the Guidelines on Procedure for Granting Approval to Disconnect Telecommunications Operators,” the NCC notified the public that approval has been granted to disconnect some licensees from MTN Nigeria Communications network as a result of non-settlement of international interconnect charges.
   
While The Guardian learnt that the interconnect debt runs into hundreds of millions, the NCC listed the affected firms to include Polo Solutions Projects Limited; BreezeMicro Limited; Exchange Telecoms Limited; Information Connectivity Solutions Limited.
  
Others are Sleekchip Technologies Limited; Alpha Technologies Limited and Western Microlink Communications Limited.
   
NCC explained that it received applications to disconnect the licensees and in accordance with itsGuidelines on “Procedure for Granting Approval to Disconnect Telecommunications Operators,” the affected licensees were notified of the application and were given opportunity to comment and state their cases.
“The commission, having examined the application and circumstances surrounding the indebtedness, determined that the affected licensees do not have sufficient and or any justifiable reason for non-payment of the international interconnect charges and therefore decided to grant approval as requested,” the notice reads.  Ene-David earned her place as the One-Day CEO of the ICT giant when she emerged as the winner of the 2022 MTNmPulse Spelling Bee Competition. She contested against 19 other top finalists and won the top spot when she spelled the word ‘acquiesce’.
  
In addition to her role as one-day CEO, the SS2 student of intimacy with Christ School received a N2.5million-scholarship grant, a laptop and a smartphone. Her English teacher and school were also presented with a N350, 000 grant and state-of-the-art ICT devices respectively. All the 19 finalists also won exciting prizes with the first and second runners-up also walking away with scholarships, grants and other gifts. 