The presidential candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC) in next Saturday’s election, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has denied asking state governors on the platform of the party to disregard President Muhammadu Buhari’s directives on the cash swap policy. In a statement yesterday by the Director, Media and Publicity of the APC Presidential Campaign Council, Bayo Onanuga, Tinubu described the report that he gave such directive to the governors as fake. The statement read: “Our attention has been drawn to a fake viral news published by the Peoples Gazette, claiming Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the APC presidential candidate has asked APC governors to ignore President Muhammadu Buhari’s broadcast and enforce the Supreme Court ruling on the recirculation of old Naira notes. “The publication by the platform is fake. “Tinubu never issued such an order. Mr Dele Alake, the APC-PCC Adviser on Media and Communications never issued such advisory on behalf of Asiwaju Tinubu. “The message quoted by Peoples Gazette was being randomly shared on WhatsApp. Mr Alake was not the author. “Asiwaju Tinubu has been known, since the currency swap crisis started, to call for calm as the authorities try to find out a solution to the currency crisis. He has offered a six-point suggestion to lessen the anguish our people are facing in trying to get money from the banks. “He has also held several meetings with President Buhari, his leader over the matter. “It is thus inconceivable and unthinkable that he would instruct APC governors to disregard President Muhammadu Buhari’s order on the currency matter. “Governors who have so far declared this line of action said clearly that they were acting on the ruling of the Supreme Court, the highest court in the land. “Asiwaju has had no influence in this decision. “Journalists, unless acting on the dictates of political opponents or prosecuting some agenda, should endeavour to confirm authorship of their materials from the Media and Publicity Directorate of the campaign. They can also seek confirmation from the Tinubu Media Office or Mr. Alake.” The Gazette should recant the story with immediate effect.”