The word, “Prophet” comes from the Greek root word “profetes” and it refers to someone who receives revelations. Jesus occupied a prophetic office and ministry. A prophet is a forth-teller. He is one who speaks forth divine messages, which includes foretelling of future events. Prophets are endowed with insights into the counsels of God. They also speak as the oracles of God. A prophet provides solution to human needs and speaks by God’s mandate. A prophet knows the heartbeat of God and speaks from that standpoint. A prophet is a carrier of grace and unction. Jesus’ deeds, the testimony of men and prophecy confirm that he was a prophet.
We have many confirmations about the prophetic ministry of Jesus. Cleopas, one of the men who walked with Jesus on the way from Emmaus, revealed what the characteristics of Jesus’ prophetic ministry would be like: “And He said to them, what things?” So, they said to Him: “The things concerning Jesus of Nazareth, who was a Prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people,” (Luke 24:19 NKJV). When Jesus met the woman of Samaria she acknowledged that Jesus was a prophet. “The woman said to Him, “Sir, I perceive that You are a prophet,” (John 4:19 NKJV). The public acclaimed Jesus to be a prophet when he raised the son of the widow of Nain from the dead. “Then fear came upon all, and they glorified God saying, a great prophet has risen up among us;” and, “God has visited His people,” (Luke 7:16 NKJV). When Jesus performed the miracle of five loaves and two fishes, the people acknowledged that he was a prophet. “Then those men, when they had seen the sign that Jesus did, said, this is truly the Prophet who is to come into the world,” (John 6:14 NKJV). On the last day of the Feast of Tabernacle when Jesus invited all who thirst to come to him, some declared that he was truly a prophet. “Therefore, many from the crowd, when they heard this saying, said, truly this is the Prophet.” Others said: “This is the Christ.” But some said: “Will the Christ come out of Galilee?” (John 7:40-41 NKJV). When Jesus opened the eyes of a blind man he acknowledged that he was a prophet: “Therefore, some of the Pharisees said, this Man is not from God, because He does not keep the Sabbath.” Others said: “How can a man who is a sinner do such signs?” And there was a division among them. They said to the blind man again: “What do you say about Him because He opened your eyes?” He said: “He is a prophet.” John 9:16-17 NKJV. The prophetic ministry of Jesus must be beneficial to you as a child of God; it must bring relevance to your life. Jesus in his prophetic ministry brought salvation, healing, and deliverance to many. He changed the life of the woman of Samaria, and through her brought revival to Samaria. He brought succour to the widow of Nain, so he can do the same for you. Jesus as the true prophet of God has revealed the thoughts and plans of God for man in his word. My prayer for you is that you will connect with him for your own miracle as you read this article. It is important to state that though Jesus was a Prophet, many of the Jews did not accept him as one. Even Jesus acknowledged that a prophet is not without honour, except among his people. 
   • Contact:pastoracukachi@gmail.com 