NerdzFactory Foundation has announced a strategic partnership with Access Corporation aimed at boosting youth employability by making them industry ready for job opportunities. Speaking at the Youth Transition Program which has impacted over 1000 Nigerian youths, NerdzFactory Foundation called for a deliberate effort from both the private and public sectors in equipping Nigerian youths with employability and digital skills to see them thrive anywhere they find themselves in the world. While addressing the program attendees, Thelma Eweam, the program manager NerdzFactory Foundation, re-emphasised that the essence of the program is to empower youths through employability and digital skills to bridge the unemployment gap. Ade’ Olowojoba, the director at NerdFactory Foundation, posited that the country is at a critical stage where the number of unemployed Youth does not match the number of economic opportunities available in the country. “We have to be deliberate in equipping young people in Nigeria to enable them to thrive both in Nigeria and anywhere around the world,” Olowojoba said. Also at the event were representatives from Access Corporation, the program sponsor and the NerdzFactory Foundation team members. Speaking at the event, panelist, Jessica Felix-Orji, senior product manager in a tech organisation, employed attendees to hone the skill of storytelling and give to learning at every point in time. “Ensure you are someone that gives learning, as this will form your experience over time and learn the ability to tell your story effectively. This is important,” Felix-Orji said. Speaking at the event, one of the panellists, Jessica Felix-Orji, senior product manager in a tech organisation, employed attendees to hone the skill of storytelling and give to learning at every point in time. “Ensure you are someone that gives learning, as this will form your experience over time and learn the ability to tell your story effectively. This is important”, he said. To stay ahead of the curve, experts say individuals need to develop employability skills to help them succeed in their roles. These skills include problem-solving, communication, collaboration, creativity, critical thinking, and digital literacy. They noted that employers now look for employees who can think critically and work collaboratively with others to find solutions to complex problems. They also need people who can use technology effectively to create innovative products or services. These employability skills are necessary for success in the modern workplace.
Over the years, The Youth Transition Program has impacted over 1000 youths with the right skills they need to transition into work and business.