Olubadan preaches against voter apathy, peaceful poll The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, has warned politicians against violent conducts before, during and after the general elections. He asked his fellow traditional leaders to desist from supporting political parties or candidates. The Ife monarch, who is the co-chairman of National Council of Traditional Rulers of Nigeria made the call, yesterday, during a broadcast in Ile-Ife ahead of Saturday’s poll. He said: “No politician can force his or herself on Nigerians. This is why our politicians should avoid being desperate in their quest for power. If you don’t win today, it may be your turn tomorrow, and this is why I am imploring office seekers not to destroy tomorrow with inactions of today. “I call on Nigerians, especially the youth population, which is the largest, to partake in the polls as enshrined in constitution and not violate any of the processes. The country has already been through a lot, including the recent fuel scarcity. We can’t afford more trouble.” He also called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to give Nigerians credible polls, and the security agents to maintain their status as defenders of our constitution by creating enabling environment and not bully the electorate. ON his part, the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Sen. Lekan Balogun, Alli Okunmade II, called on Nigerians not to allow the current discomfort across the land occasioned by the Naira redesign policy and fuel scarcity to discourage them from exercising their civic duty by trooping out to vote in the presidential and National Assembly elections. Nigerians will go to the polls tomorrow to elect a new President and members of the National Assembly, under the supervision of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for another four years. Balogun, in a statement his Personal Assistant (Media), Oladele Ogunsola, noted: “There is the tendency for people to be apathetic to the election, having been wearied by the prevailing problems. But that is not the best way to react. I empathise with our people, but I want them not to see apathy as a way of getting back at the government for the unpalatable situation. “Election is part of the civic duty of every good citizen. Should any eligible person stay away from the poll, it is a demonstration of the opposite of good. No government can do everything, not even the governments of the so-called advance countries; so, we owe it a duty to ourselves and our unborn children to be part of the process of bringing on board of another government.” The monarch commended INEC for the assurances given to Nigerians that it would give the country a credible election. 