The coalition for good governance and change initiative (CGGCI) yesterday upbraided the authorities of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) over the alleged disregard of court orders. CGGCI National Coordinator, Comrade Okpokwu Ogenyi who briefed reporters in Abuja called on the Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali and the Department of State Service to wade into the issue. Stressing the need to compel the EFCC Chairman Abdulrasheed Bawa to obey court orders, the group noted that it was unfortunate that Nigeria is fast becoming the Banana Republic where there is no law and order. Expressing dissatisfaction with the performance of the EFCC chief, the group threatened to mobilize thousands of Nigerians to the street, to press home its demands. It noted: “Under Bawa’s watch, the United States of America issues a report which indicted the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission for chasing Yahoo Boys and abandoning the real financial crime offenders to enjoy their loot. The commission has become the opposite of President Buhahri’s principle of a strong institutional government. “At this eve of transition, we are ready to protect Mr President’s image and preserve his legacy. We call on President Muhammadu Buhari to call Mr Bawa to order by not allowing him to live above the constitution, but to obey it. “We make bold to say that if Mr Abdulrasheed Bawa fails to obey the various court’s orders including the ones that committed him to Kuje correctional centre within 72 hours. “It is a sad moment in the history of Nigeria that those saddled with the responsibility of protecting the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria are the ones abusing it. “As Nigerians, we believed that the youths in leadership positions should be more proactive, coordinated and humane in discharging their duties while protecting the integrity and image of President Muhammadu Buhari, especially in the areas of anti-corruption, human rights and democratic governance. “With the appointment of Mr Abdulrasheed Bawa as the Executive Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Nigerians expected a paradigm shift in the operational areas of the commission which we anticipated a radical improvement in terms of service delivery to earn the confidence of Nigerians, but the reverse is the case. “Here is a vibrant young man who has been committed to prison in two different occasions regarding his abuse of court order. His reign has seen the worst relationship between the EFCC and the judiciary, an arm supposedly used to convict financial offenders by the same commission. “We are further worried when in recent times, Mr Bawa was convicted for contempt by several courts of competent jurisdiction on the account of his willful abuse of Court Orders, but he continues to go about enjoying the protection of the establishment against the rule of law. This act is against the workings of Buhari’s administrative policy of the rule of law. “Recently, a Lokoja High Court convicted and ordered his arrest and committal to Kuje Correctional Center until he purged himself of the contempt, nevertheless he proceeded to harass, investigate and prosecute those who secured these rightful orders. “The EFCC Chairman even expanded his persecution to other individuals who have ever done a lawful business with the Kogi State government without fault.”