The Minister of Water Resource, Suleiman Adamu, has advised Nigerians to get prepared as 178 local councils in 32 states, including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, would experience heavy flooding this year. The minister gave this warning, yesterday, at the official unveiling of the 2022 Annual Flood Outlook (AFO), entitled ‘Flood Prediction and its impact on Socio-Economic Livelihood’ held in Abuja. He explained that urban cities across the country would experience flash and urban flooding, while states along the coastal regions would experience coastal flooding due to the rise in sea level. “The forecasts for 2023 AFO shows that 178 local councils in 32 states of the federation and the FCT fall within the Highly Probable Flood Risk Areas, while 224 local councils in 35 states of the federation, including the FCT, fall within the Moderately Probable Flood Risk Areas. The remaining 402 local councils fall within the Probable Flood Risk Areas. The Highly Probable Flood Risk States are Adamawa, Abia, Akwa Ibom, Anambra, Bauchi, Bayelsa, Benue, Cross River, Delta, Ebonyi, Ekiti, Edo, Gombe, Imo, Jigawa, Kaduna, Kano, Kebbi, Kogi, Kwara, Lagos, Nasarawa, Niger, Ogun, Ondo, Osun, Oyo, Rivers, Sokoto, Taraba, Yobe, Zamfara and the FCT. “Highly Probable Flood Risk Areas between the months of April and November, in 2023 the level of floods in this category is expected to be high in terms of impact on the population, agriculture, livelihood, livestock and infrastructure, and the environment. Part of 66 local councils across the country fall within the Highly Probable Risk areas in the months of April, May and June, while part of 148 local councils in the months of July, August and September, and part of 100 local councils in the months of October and November, 2023. The details of the councils and their corresponding states are contained in the publication Probable Flood Risk Areas between the months of April and November, 2023, the moderate impact level of floods are expected in parts of 41 local councils within the months of April, May and June, and in parts of 199 local councils within the months of July, August and September, and parts of 73 local councils within the months of October and November, 2023. “Bayelsa, Cross River, Delta, Edo, Lagos, Ogun, Rivers and Ondo will be experiencing coastal flooding due to rise in sea level and tidal surge which would impact on fishing, wildlife habitation and river navigation. Flash and urban flood will be experienced in urban cities centres across the country. Among these cities are Lagos, Kaduna, Suleja, Gombe, Yola, Makurdi, Abuja, Lafia, Asaba, Port Harcourt, Yenagoa, Ibadan, Abeokuta, Benin City, Bimin- Kebbi, Sokoto, Lakoja, Maiduguri, Kano, Oshogbo, Ado-Ekiti, Abakaliki, Awka, Nsukka, Calabar, Owerri. The Minister, therefore, called on all stakeholders, policy makers and agencies to rise up with appropriate mechanism on how to curtail impending floods. The Permanent Secretary Didi Walson- Jack represented by Director, River Basin Operations and Inspectorate, Mr A. J. Ochigbo, said the negative impact of flood would be on the decline by the promoting better understanding of flood risks and ensuring that appropriate mitigating measures are deployed. The Director-General, Nigeria Hydrological services Agency (NIHSA), Engr. Clement Nze in his vote of thanks, emphasized on the need for farmers, policy makers to use the information provided for preventive measures. Nze added that AFO is to prepare the nation to avert the negative impact of floods. “What we are doing is veer into nature to predict what would happen.” 