An art fair featuring works of emerging and established artists such as, Adavize Jamiu Ibrahim, Luqman Olabode Onipede, Ndifreke James, Michael Olusanya Omole, Kelly Omoefe Ovwigho and Omodesola Fagbenle recently held in Lagos. The show, with Freedom as theme, had on display, hyperrealistic sketches, oil on canvas, animation paintings on acrylic and a host of other works. The fair attracted works meant for both primary and secondary art markets. There were also works with private collectors, including a 33×33.5 inch, oil on canvas piece, Makoko, by John Yaktal. While relishing the beauty that comes from uncommon places, Isaac Adegoke Jimoh’s 12×10 acrylic piece, The Beautiful Sea, brightens viewers’ experience with a work that captures the serene and cool sea environment with precision and verve. Also unforgettable is Kayode Famoye’s The Fulani. The work shows drummers in their glory, while Onipede tackles the theme of Freedom with a-24×51 inch oil on canvas painting that pays homage to the afrobeat legend, Fela Anikulapo-Kuti. The bare torso, hands in the air, fists clenched, head decapitated and replaced with the Nigerian flag indicating freedom, which is every Nigerian’s cry. Freedom is placed on a background sprinkled with love emojis. This reveals as much, a genuine love for fatherland.
 
His Ijakadi, gleaned from a fight for freedom between two chickens, is cast on a different shade from Isiju, an explosion of colours, with loosened handcuffs. Onipede sounds a Call of Freedom in a dazzling 24×48 inch oil on canvas creation, with a man playing his instrument. He plays with geometric shapes to create the character’s features. Adavize’s work at the fair is equally arresting. Perhaps, the most arresting of his sketches is Paradigm of Virtue. The 18×24 inch charcoal and acrylic piece, which caused visitors to the show to interrogate themselves. Ndifreke’s collection is a breath of fresh air, as it showcases his strengths as a sketch and animation artist.  He features Smile, a 12×16 inch acrylic piece in happy hues of pink and black, and a 2 x2 foot painting of a masked black collared animation character with a signature hair cut and sun shades. A pen and paper sketch, transformed into a painting, as well as his love for warm colours, inspired the painting. Ndifreke’s art is so much fun to behold, and a sure Generation Z winner. Omole’s African Boy, done in 2019, looks at a child rolling a tyre. The self-taught artist also reflects on a danfo bus in a puddle of water in a busy street, beside a Keke Napep after rainfall. His My Guardian, a 32×42 inch creation tells the story of his guardian, Iya Alakara, whose words of wisdom in an apposite season drew him back to the right path, and to art as his earthly supply. Fagbenle’s acrylic on canvas captures the fragile nature of a blooming flower. He also has another acrylic on canvas piece of red apples in beautifully dark maroon hues, wowing viewers in its simplicity. Ovwigho exhibits three pieces of acrylic on canvas. These works express diverse emotions, including the joy of a child in Ecstasy (16×20, 2020) and Self Discovery (1&2, 2022) in the dimensions 30×30 inches and 34×34 inches. These pieces show the journey towards self-discovery in bright colours such as blues, greens, reds, pink and purple. The fine artist and illustrator, Mr Lemi Ghariokwu, the designer of 26 album covers of the abami eda, Fela, who was the guest of honour, after going through the works on show, commended the artists for their impressive work.