As people with disabilities root for ex-vice president For the second time, yesterday, presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, stated that he remains the “stepping stone” to Igbo achieving their dream of producing President of Nigeria, insisting that his party was poised to winning the 2023 general elections. Addressing supporters at a rally, shunned by Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi at Michael Okpara Square in Enugu, the ex-Vice President insisted that by voting the PDP in the forthcoming elections, Southeast would remain in the mainstream of politics of the country and in the long run develop, warning that doing the contrary would place the zone in the minority. He said: “When we came here two months ago to attend the zonal conference of the Southeast, I said to the Southeasterners that I am going to be the stepping stone for an Igbo President and I mean it. Whether an Igbo man is from the Southeast or South-South, it is the same race. Today, my running mate is an Igbo man.  It is a universal ethnic group. So, my brothers and sisters, I want you to continue believing in PDP.  I want to let you know that this country is geared towards electing a PDP government and we should not be an exception and we should not be in the minority. The next government of the country will be formed by the PDP. So, you must be in the mainstream of Nigerian politics and that is the only way we can bring about prosperity, economic development and growth of the economy of this part of the country.” Abubakar, whose speech took barely two minutes, stated that Enugu, since 1999, has been a PDP state, assuring: “The state will require to continue to receive the required attention” if he wins. Also at the event are erstwhile Vice President, Namadi Sambo; ex-Senate President, Pius Anyim; Governors Emmanuel Udom of Akwa Ibom State; his Sokoto counterpart, Aminu Tambuwal; one-time National Chairman of the party, Dr. Okwesilieze Nwodo; Chairman, Board of Trustees, Adolphus Wabara, governorship candidate of the party in Enugu, Peter Mbah. IN a related development, hundreds of People With Disabilities (PWDs) in North West geopolitical zone, yesterday, stormed Kaduna, to back Abubakar for the presidency. They were seen in the metropolis chanting PDP slogans, as they trooped to Arewa House to address party supporters. The special set of persons walso deplored the hardship in the land. Addressing the gathering, Director in charge of People With Special Needs (PWSNs) at the PDP Presidential Campaign Council, Senator Bello Hayatudeen Gwarzo, observed that of all the aspirants, his principal was the only one, cared for and held meetings with these special persons. The former lawmaker, who is also Zonal Vice Chairman of PDP in North West Zone, said the people have no excuse to abandon Atiku since he recognised them long before now. “We, the People With Special Needs are for Atiku Abubakar because he recognised and cared for us. None of the presidential candidates recognised us except Atiku. We are going to vote him to ensure that he wins the February 25 election,” he said.