A lagos Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja has fixed May 24 for continuation of trial of former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode over alleged false pretence and fabricating evidence. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) had arraigned Fani-Kayode on a 12-count charge bordering on use of false documents, fabricated evidence, procuring execution of documents by false pretence and fabricating evidence before Justice Olubunmi Abike-Fadipe. The anti-graft agency accused Fani-Kayode of tendering forged medical report(s) before Justice Daniel Osiagor of the Federal High Court sitting in Ikoyi, Lagos, wherein he is being prosecuted for alleged N4.9 billion fraud. He had pleaded not guilty to the charges when he was arraigned on December 17, 2021. However, when the matter was called, the defence counsel, Wale Balogun, informed the court of the defendant’s absence. He said the ex-minister was indisposed, adding: “Aside the health reason, he have a running battle with both the DSS and the Police. Balogun further told court that he had also shared some documents with respect to the case with the prosecution. Responding, prosecuting counsel, Bilikisu Buhari, informed the court that the defence gave some documents to the prosecution. She said he shared two documents, a medical report and another from the Nigeria Police Force. She said the court had adjourned for the cross-examination of the prosecution’s witness. The lawyer, therefore, left the decision at the discretion of the court. Balogun said: “Since the last time we were here, the defendant has been reporting everyday at the DSS and while he was doing this, the Nigeria Police invited him for questioning with regards to some comments Fani-Kayode made online. He has not been able to have peace of mind, and that has affected his health. “On the 16th he was at the hospital and on Saturday, he was also re-admitted back at the National Hospital. Even as we speak, he is also there, and based on this, it has become imperative to seek your lordship’s indulgence not only to vacate today, but the other days, 21 and 22.” The defence counsel prayed the court that those date be vacated to enable him resolve those issues. Justice Abike-Fadipe, subsequently, adjourned further trial in the case to May 24 and 25.