 Pascal Atuma Canadian-Nigerian Filmmaker and Actor, Pascal Atuma have advised Nigerian youths not to put their lives on the line for Nigerian politicians. Atuma sounded the warning in his birthday message. He said politicians are not worth dying for. “Do not die for any Nigerian politician or allow yourself to be used to commit atrocities; they should bring their children back from their save heavens overseas to die for them and do their dirty jobs. “They loot the country, transfer Nigeria’s wealth overseas with their children and come during elections to use children from poor and less privileged homes for thuggery, election malpractice, and destruction. It is not uncommon for children with low socioeconomic status to be used to eliminate individuals who constitute a nuisance to our greedy politicians”. Therefore, they should bring back their children from abroad to do their dirty and evil deeds in this election. “Nigerians should wake up and understand that the suffering in Nigeria today is man-made; Be it known that the politicians systematically created poverty and are using it to control the masses with intentions to retain power and control. It is time for Nigerians to rise and deliver the country from the wicked hands of these politicians and corrupt leaders. I was just in Nigeria filming for a new project, “The Imported Wives. I had to use naira to buy naira to carry out the production. “The ruggedness and understanding of my executive producer, Joy Madubuike, was the only reason it was easy to justify spending additional naira to purchase naira. Unfortunately, Nigeria is in a total mess at this time, so I don’t see any reason to celebrate my birthday; I thank God I am still alive, but seeing Nigeria decay and collapse to this level because of the selfishness and self-centeredness of a few people holding the country to ransom is heartbreaking. Something has got to give; Nigeria cannot continue this way; the country is literally at war, and all the characteristics of war-torn nations have already manifested to the fullest. Hunger, insecurity, fuel and electricity scarcity, bad roads, dilapidated hospitals, run-down public schools, and others. We will continue to pray for the intervention of the almighty God. “However, we must rise and use our permanent voters’ card to ensure that greedy and obsolete politicians do not find themselves in the corridors of power in Nigeria. Enough is enough; the time has come for Nigerians to take back Nigeria.