Dangote Group yesterday held its Special Day at the on-going 13th Gateway International Trade fair in Abeokuta with a pledge to ensure Nigeria attains self-sufficiency in all the economic sectors where it operates. This is even as the Ogun state government lauded the management of the Dangote Group for its investments in the state, which it claimed has lifted the economic fortune of the state. Speaking at the event, Mr. Dolapo Alli, Regional Sales Director, Lagos/Ogun, Dangote Cement Plc, said the Dangote Group as a pan-African conglomerate has adopted as its mantra, Nigeria’s self-sufficiency in all sectors where the company operates. He explained that the Group has been a reliable partner to many trade fairs across the country because the management believes that Chambers of Commerce and Industry occupy a unique position in driving economic development through their activities. He stated that Dangote Industries considered OGUNCCIMA as unique because Ogun state has one of the largest concentrations of industries in Nigeria and serves as a corridor for transportation of goods, services and people between Lagos and the rest of Nigeria and even neighbouring countries of Benin Republic, Togo and Ghana. “Gateway International Trade Fair therefore remains an avenue for us to connect with our customers in the South-West and other parts of the country. It is a homecoming, as the region is known for innovation and industry. We at Dangote Group and people of South-West share the trait of always pushing beyond the limits and discovering new levels of success. “Despite our progressive position, we are innovative and always thinking of strategies that will drive business and create value for our customers. This, we achieve, by increasing the number and quality of products in our portfolio, as an increased range of products provide more options, alternatives and business for our customers”, he said. Mr. Alli noted that the Company’s continuous efforts to innovate, create value and invest in Nigeria are borne out of its belief in the vast economic potential of Nigeria adding that this informed the management’s desire to invest massively in states across the country. In her goodwill message, the Ogun State Commissioner for Industry, Trade and Investments, Mrs. Kikelomo Longe expressed the state government’s appreciation to Dangote Group for rising to the occasion each time the state called upon it, saying the Company’s investments has lifted the economic activities in the state. In his address, the first Deputy President of OGUNCCIMA, Niyi Oshiyemi, who stood in for the President, commended the management of Dangote Group for its business model, which has stood out the company’s subsidiaries as the leader in all the sectors where they operate. He noted that the partnership between the Company and OGUNCCIMA over the years, has been very helpful and fruitful noting that it was one of the partnerships that account for the sustenance of the fair.